It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grub-worm of a poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans and street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to whales he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however authentic, in these extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As touching the ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as affording a glancing bird’s eye view of what has been promiscuously said, thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations, including our own. So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am. Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too; and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes and empty glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness—Give it up, Sub-Subs! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world, by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and making refugees of long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against your coming. Here ye strike but splintered hearts together—there, ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses!EXTRACTS. “And God created great whales.” —Genesis. “Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep to be hoary.” —Job. “Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.” —Jonah. “There go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to play therein.” —Psalms. “In that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword, shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.” —Isaiah. “And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this monster’s mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it goes all incontinently that foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of his paunch.” —Holland’s Plutarch’s Morals. “The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are: among which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as much in length as four acres or arpens of land.” —Holland’s Pliny. “Scarcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about sunrise a great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the former, one was of a most monstrous size.... This came towards us, open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea before him into a foam.” —Tooke’s Lucian. “The True History.” “He visited this country also with a view of catching horse-whales, which had bones of very great value for their teeth, of which he brought some to the king.... The best whales were catched in his own country, of which some were forty-eight, some fifty yards long. He said that he was one of six who had killed sixty in two days.” —Other or Other’s verbal narrative taken down from his mouth by King Alfred, A.D. 890. “And whereas all the other things, whether beast or vessel, that enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster’s (whale’s) mouth, are immediately lost and swallowed up, the sea-gudgeon retires into it in great security, and there sleeps.” —MONTAIGNE. —Apology for Raimond Sebond. “Let us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me if it is not Leviathan described by the noble prophet Moses in the life of patient Job.” —Rabelais. “This whale’s liver was two cartloads.” —Stowe’s Annals. “The great Leviathan that maketh the seas to seethe like boiling pan.” —Lord Bacon’s Version of the Psalms. “Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat, insomuch that an incredible quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale.” —Ibid. “History of Life and Death.” “The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise.” —King Henry. “Very like a whale.” —Hamlet. “Which to secure, no skill of leach’s art Mote him availle, but to returne againe To his wound’s worker, that with lowly dart, Dinting his breast, had bred his restless paine, Like as the wounded whale to shore flies thro’ the maine.” —The Fairie Queen. “Immense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful calm trouble the ocean till it boil.” —Sir William Davenant. Preface to Gondibert. “What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, Nescio quid sit.” —Sir T. Browne. Of Sperma Ceti and the Sperma Ceti Whale. Vide his V. E. “Like Spencer’s Talus with his modern flail He threatens ruin with his ponderous tail. ... Their fixed jav’lins in his side he wears, And on his back a grove of pikes appears.” —Waller’s Battle of the Summer Islands. “By art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or State—(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man.” —Opening sentence of Hobbes’s Leviathan. “Silly Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a sprat in the mouth of a whale.” —Pilgrim’s Progress. “That sea beast Leviathan, which God of all his works Created hugest that swim the ocean stream.” —Paradise Lost. —“There Leviathan, Hugest of living creatures, in the deep Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims, And seems a moving land; and at his gills Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea.” —Ibid. “The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of oil swimming in them.” —Fuller’s Profane and Holy State. “So close behind some promontory lie The huge Leviathan to attend their prey, And give no chance, but swallow in the fry, Which through their gaping jaws mistake the way.” —Dryden’s Annus Mirabilis. “While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off his head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come; but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water.” —Thomas Edge’s Ten Voyages to Spitzbergen, in Purchas. “In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which nature has placed on their shoulders.” —Sir T. Herbert’s Voyages into Asia and Africa. Harris Coll. “Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship upon them.” —Schouten’s Sixth Circumnavigation. “We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can’t open his mouth, but that is a fable.... They frequently climb up the masts to see whether they can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his pains.... I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a barrel of herrings in his belly.... One of our harpooneers told me that he caught once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over.” —A Voyage to Greenland, A.D. 1671. Harris Coll. “Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren.” —Sibbald’s Fife and Kinross. “Myself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that was killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness.” —Richard Strafford’s Letter from the Bermudas. Phil. Trans. A.D. 1668. “Whales in the sea God’s voice obey.” —N. E. Primer. “We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the northward of us.” —Captain Cowley’s Voyage round the Globe, A.D. 1729. “... and the breath of the whale is frequently attended with such an insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain.” —Ulloa’s South America. “To fifty chosen sylphs of special note, We trust the important charge, the petticoat. Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to fail, Tho’ stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale.” —Rape of the Lock. “If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those that take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest animal in creation.” —Goldsmith, Nat. Hist. “If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them speak like great whales.” —Goldsmith to Johnson. “In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were then towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves behind the whale, in order to avoid being seen by us.” —Cook’s Voyages. “The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so great dread of some of them, that when out at sea they are afraid to mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood, and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order to terrify and prevent their too near approach.” —Uno Von Troil’s Letters on Banks’s and Solander’s Voyage to Iceland in 1772. “The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen.” —Thomas Jefferson’s Whale Memorial to the French minister in 1778. “And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?” —Edmund Burke’s reference in Parliament to the Nantucket Whale-Fishery. “Spain—a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe.” —Edmund Burke. (somewhere.) “A tenth branch of the king’s ordinary revenue, said to be grounded on the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from pirates and robbers, is the right to royal fish, which are whale and sturgeon. And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the coast, are the property of the king.” —Blackstone. “Soon to the sport of death the crews repair: Rodmond unerring o’er his head suspends The barbed steel, and every turn attends.” —Falconer’s Shipwreck. “Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires, And rockets blew self driven, To hang their momentary fire Around the vault of heaven. “So fire with water to compare, The ocean serves on high, Up-spouted by a whale in air, To express unwieldy joy.” —Cowper, on the Queen’s Visit to London. “Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at a stroke, with immense velocity.” —John Hunter’s account of the dissection of a whale. (A small sized one.) “The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale’s heart.” —Paley’s Theology. “The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet.” —Baron Cuvier. “In 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take any till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them.” —Colnett’s Voyage for the Purpose of Extending the Spermaceti Whale Fishery. “In the free element beneath me swam, Floundered and dived, in play, in chace, in battle, Fishes of every colour, form, and kind; Which language cannot paint, and mariner Had never seen; from dread Leviathan To insect millions peopling every wave: Gather’d in shoals immense, like floating islands, Led by mysterious instincts through that waste And trackless region, though on every side Assaulted by voracious enemies, Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm’d in front or jaw, With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs.” —Montgomery’s World before the Flood. “Io! Paean! Io! sing. To the finny people’s king. Not a mightier whale than this In the vast Atlantic is; Not a fatter fish than he, Flounders round the Polar Sea.” —Charles Lamb’s Triumph of the Whale. “In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the whales spouting and sporting with each other, when one observed: there—pointing to the sea—is a green pasture where our children’s grand-children will go for bread.” —Obed Macy’s History of Nantucket. “I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the form of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale’s jaw bones.” —Hawthorne’s Twice Told Tales. “She came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been killed by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years ago.” —Ibid. “No, Sir, ’tis a Right Whale,” answered Tom; “I saw his sprout; he threw up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to look at. He’s a raal oil-butt, that fellow!” —Cooper’s Pilot. “The papers were brought in, and we saw in the Berlin Gazette that whales had been introduced on the stage there.” —Eckermann’s Conversations with Goethe. “My God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?” I answered, “we have been stove by a whale.” —“Narrative of the Shipwreck of the Whale Ship Essex of Nantucket, which was attacked and finally destroyed by a large Sperm Whale in the Pacific Ocean.” By Owen Chace of Nantucket, first mate of said vessel. New York, 1821. “A mariner sat in the shrouds one night, The wind was piping free; Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale, And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale, As it floundered in the sea.” —Elizabeth Oakes Smith. “The quantity of line withdrawn from the boats engaged in the capture of this one whale, amounted altogether to 10,440 yards or nearly six English miles.... “Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air, which, cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of three or four miles.” —Scoresby. “Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over; he rears his enormous head, and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he rushes at the boats with his head; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness, and sometimes utterly destroyed.... It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting, and, in a commercial point of view, so important an animal (as the Sperm Whale) should have been so entirely neglected, or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous, and many of them competent observers, that of late years, must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes.” —Thomas Beale’s History of the Sperm Whale, 1839. “The Cachalot” (Sperm Whale) “is not only better armed than the True Whale” (Greenland or Right Whale) “in possessing a formidable weapon at either extremity of its body, but also more frequently displays a disposition to employ these weapons offensively and in manner at once so artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as the most dangerous to attack of all the known species of the whale tribe.” —Frederick Debell Bennett’s Whaling Voyage Round the Globe, 1840. October 13. “There she blows,” was sung out from the mast-head. “Where away?” demanded the captain. “Three points off the lee bow, sir.” “Raise up your wheel. Steady!” “Steady, sir.” “Mast-head ahoy! Do you see that whale now?” “Ay ay, sir! A shoal of Sperm Whales! There she blows! There she breaches!” “Sing out! sing out every time!” “Ay Ay, sir! There she blows! there—there—thar she blows—bowes—bo-o-os!” “How far off?” “Two miles and a half.” “Thunder and lightning! so near! Call all hands.” —J. Ross Browne’s Etchings of a Whaling Cruize. 1846. “The Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred the horrid transactions we are about to relate, belonged to the island of Nantucket.” —“Narrative of the Globe Mutiny,” by Lay and Hussey survivors. A.D. 1828. Being once pursued by a whale which he had wounded, he parried the assault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length rushed on the boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by leaping into the water when they saw the onset was inevitable.” —Missionary Journal of Tyerman and Bennett. “Nantucket itself,” said Mr. Webster, “is a very striking and peculiar portion of the National interest. There is a population of eight or nine thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely every year to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering industry.” —Report of Daniel Webster’s Speech in the U. S. Senate, on the application for the Erection of a Breakwater at Nantucket. 1828. “The whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a moment.” —“The Whale and his Captors, or The Whaleman’s Adventures and the Whale’s Biography, gathered on the Homeward Cruise of the Commodore Preble.” By Rev. Henry T. Cheever. “If you make the least damn bit of noise,” replied Samuel, “I will send you to hell.” —Life of Samuel Comstock (the mutineer), by his brother, William Comstock. Another Version of the whale-ship Globe narrative. “The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order, if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, though they failed of their main object, laid-open the haunts of the whale.” —McCulloch’s Commercial Dictionary. “These things are reciprocal; the ball rebounds, only to bound forward again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the whalemen seem to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same mystic North-West Passage.” —From “Something” unpublished. “It is impossible to meet a whale-ship on the ocean without being struck by her near appearance. The vessel under short sail, with look-outs at the mast-heads, eagerly scanning the wide expanse around them, has a totally different air from those engaged in regular voyage.” —Currents and Whaling. U.S. Ex. Ex. “Pedestrians in the vicinity of London and elsewhere may recollect having seen large curved bones set upright in the earth, either to form arches over gateways, or entrances to alcoves, and they may perhaps have been told that these were the ribs of whales.” —Tales of a Whale Voyager to the Arctic Ocean. “It was not till the boats returned from the pursuit of these whales, that the whites saw their ship in bloody possession of the savages enrolled among the crew.” —Newspaper Account of the Taking and Retaking of the Whale-Ship Hobomack. “It is generally well known that out of the crews of Whaling vessels (American) few ever return in the ships on board of which they departed.” —Cruise in a Whale Boat. “Suddenly a mighty mass emerged from the water, and shot up perpendicularly into the air. It was the whale.” —Miriam Coffin or the Whale Fisherman. “The Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope tied to the root of his tail.” —A Chapter on Whaling in Ribs and Trucks. “On one occasion I saw two of these monsters (whales) probably male and female, slowly swimming, one after the other, within less than a stone’s throw of the shore” (Terra Del Fuego), “over which the beech tree extended its branches.” —Darwin’s Voyage of a Naturalist. “‘Stern all!’ exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his head, he saw the distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to the head of the boat, threatening it with instant destruction;—‘Stern all, for your lives!’” —Wharton the Whale Killer. “So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!” —Nantucket Song. “Oh, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale In his ocean home will be A giant in might, where might is right, And King of the boundless sea.” —Whale Song.CHAPTER 1. Loomings.Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—havinglittle or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest meon shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery partof the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen andregulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim aboutthe mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; wheneverI find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, andbringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenevermy hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moralprinciple to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, andmethodically knocking people’s hats off—then, I account it high time toget to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball.With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; Iquietly take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If theybut knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other,cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round bywharves as Indian isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with hersurf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extremedowntown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, andcooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight ofland. Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from CorlearsHook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. Whatdo you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, standthousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Someleaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; somelooking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in therigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But theseare all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster—tied tocounters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Arethe green fields gone? What do they here?But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, andseemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but theextremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonderwarehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the wateras they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand—miles ofthem—leagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streetsand avenues—north, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite. Tellme, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of allthose ships attract them thither?Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Takealmost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in adale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic init. Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepestreveries—stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he willinfallibly lead you to water, if water there be in all that region.Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try thisexperiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysicalprofessor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded forever.But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valleyof the Saco. What is the chief element he employs? There stand histrees, each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix werewithin; and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and upfrom yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlandswinds a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed intheir hill-side blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced, andthough this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon thisshepherd’s head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd’s eye werefixed upon the magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June,when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep amongTiger-lilies—what is the one charm wanting?—Water—there is not a dropof water there! Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travelyour thousand miles to see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, uponsuddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buyhim a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestriantrip to Rockaway Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with arobust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea?Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such amystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now outof sight of land? Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? Why didthe Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surelyall this is not without meaning. And still deeper the meaning of thatstory of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mildimage he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned. But thatsame image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans. It is the imageof the ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I beginto grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of mylungs, I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as apassenger. For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and apurse is but a rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengersget sea-sick—grow quarrelsome—don’t sleep of nights—do not enjoythemselves much, as a general thing;—no, I never go as a passenger;nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as aCommodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the glory and distinctionof such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate allhonorable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kindwhatsoever. It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself,without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.And as for going as cook,—though I confess there is considerable gloryin that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board—yet, somehow, Inever fancied broiling fowls;—though once broiled, judiciouslybuttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one whowill speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiledfowl than I will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the oldEgyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see themummies of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids.No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast,plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head.True, they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar tospar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this sort ofthing is unpleasant enough. It touches one’s sense of honor,particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, theVan Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all, ifjust previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have beenlording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand inawe of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from aschoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca andthe Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears offin time.What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broomand sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed,I mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangelGabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly andrespectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain’ta slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains mayorder me about—however they may thump and punch me about, I have thesatisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else isone way or other served in much the same way—either in a physical ormetaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump ispassed round, and all hands should rub each other’s shoulder-blades,and be content.Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point ofpaying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a singlepenny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves mustpay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying andbeing paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortableinfliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But beingpaid,—what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a manreceives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestlybelieve money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on noaccount can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consignourselves to perdition!Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesomeexercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world,head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, ifyou never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part theCommodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand fromthe sailors on the forecastle. He thinks he breathes it first; but notso. In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in manyother things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it. Butwherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as amerchant sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whalingvoyage; this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has theconstant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me insome unaccountable way—he can better answer than any one else. And,doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grandprogramme of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came inas a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensiveperformances. I take it that this part of the bill must have runsomething like this:“Grand Contested Election for the Presidency of the United States.“WHALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL. “BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN.”Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, theFates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, whenothers were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and shortand easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces—though Icannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all thecircumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motiveswhich being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, inducedme to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into thedelusion that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewilland discriminating judgment.Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whalehimself. Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all mycuriosity. Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his islandbulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with allthe attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds,helped to sway me to my wish. With other men, perhaps, such thingswould not have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with aneverlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, andland on barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good, I am quick toperceive a horror, and could still be social with it—would they letme—since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates ofthe place one lodges in.By reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage was welcome; thegreat flood-gates of the wonder-world swung open, and in the wildconceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two there floated intomy inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid most of themall, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.I stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked it under myarm, and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good cityof old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday nightin December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the littlepacket for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reachingthat place would offer, till the following Monday.As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop atthis same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as wellbe related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind wasmade up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was afine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famousold island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford hasof late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and thoughin this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucketwas her great original—the Tyre of this Carthage;—the place where thefirst dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucketdid those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoesto give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, didthat first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden withimported cobblestones—so goes the story—to throw at the whales, inorder to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from thebowsprit?Now having a night, a day, and still another night following before mein New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became amatter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was avery dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly coldand cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I hadsounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,—So,wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle ofa dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards thenorth with the darkness towards the south—wherever in your wisdom youmay conclude to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure toinquire the price, and don’t be too particular.With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed the sign of “TheCrossed Harpoons”—but it looked too expensive and jolly there. Furtheron, from the bright red windows of the “Sword-Fish Inn,” there camesuch fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow andice from before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost layten inches thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement,—rather weary for me,when I struck my foot against the flinty projections, because fromhard, remorseless service the soles of my boots were in a mostmiserable plight. Too expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing onemoment to watch the broad glare in the street, and hear the sounds ofthe tinkling glasses within. But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don’tyou hear? get away from before the door; your patched boots arestopping the way. So on I went. I now by instinct followed the streetsthat took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if notthe cheeriest inns.Such dreary streets! blocks of blackness, not houses, on either hand,and here and there a candle, like a candle moving about in a tomb. Atthis hour of the night, of the last day of the week, that quarter ofthe town proved all but deserted. But presently I came to a smoky lightproceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which stoodinvitingly open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for theuses of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumbleover an ash-box in the porch. Ha! thought I, ha, as the flyingparticles almost choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city,Gomorrah? But “The Crossed Harpoons,” and “The Sword-Fish?”—this, thenmust needs be the sign of “The Trap.” However, I picked myself up andhearing a loud voice within, pushed on and opened a second, interiordoor.It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred blackfaces turned round in their rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel ofDoom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and thepreacher’s text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weepingand wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backingout, Wretched entertainment at the sign of ‘The Trap!’Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from thedocks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw aswinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintlyrepresenting a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these wordsunderneath—“The Spouter Inn:—Peter Coffin.”Coffin?—Spouter?—Rather ominous in that particular connexion, thoughtI. But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose thisPeter here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, andthe place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidatedlittle wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted herefrom the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had apoverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the veryspot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.It was a queer sort of place—a gable-ended old house, one side palsiedas it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner,where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling thanever it did about poor Paul’s tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless,is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on thehob quietly toasting for bed. “In judging of that tempestuous windcalled Euroclydon,” says an old writer—of whose works I possess theonly copy extant—“it maketh a marvellous difference, whether thoulookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on theoutside, or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, wherethe frost is on both sides, and of which the wight Death is the onlyglazier.” True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to mymind—old black-letter, thou reasonest well. Yes, these eyes arewindows, and this body of mine is the house. What a pity they didn’tstop up the chinks and the crannies though, and thrust in a little linthere and there. But it’s too late to make any improvements now. Theuniverse is finished; the copestone is on, and the chips were cartedoff a million years ago. Poor Lazarus there, chattering his teethagainst the curbstone for his pillow, and shaking off his tatters withhis shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags, and put acorn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out thetempestuous Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his red silkenwrapper—(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh! What a fine frostynight; how Orion glitters; what northern lights! Let them talk of theiroriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me theprivilege of making my own summer with my own coals.But what thinks Lazarus? Can he warm his blue hands by holding them upto the grand northern lights? Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatrathan here? Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along theline of the equator; yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery pit itself, inorder to keep out this frost?Now, that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before thedoor of Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should bemoored to one of the Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like aCzar in an ice palace made of frozen sighs, and being a president of atemperance society, he only drinks the tepid tears of orphans.But no more of this blubbering now, we are going a-whaling, and thereis plenty of that yet to come. Let us scrape the ice from our frostedfeet, and see what sort of a place this “Spouter” may be.CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a wide,low, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one ofthe bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On one side hung a very largeoilpainting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in theunequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligentstudy and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry ofthe neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of itspurpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at firstyou almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the NewEngland hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dintof much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, andespecially by throwing open the little window towards the back of theentry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, howeverwild, might not be altogether unwarranted.But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber,portentous, black mass of something hovering in the centre of thepicture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in anameless yeast. A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drivea nervous man distracted. Yet was there a sort of indefinite,half-attained, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you toit, till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out whatthat marvellous painting meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas,deceptive idea would dart you through.—It’s the Black Sea in a midnightgale.—It’s the unnatural combat of the four primal elements.—It’s ablasted heath.—It’s a Hyperborean winter scene.—It’s the breaking-up ofthe icebound stream of Time. But at last all these fancies yielded tothat one portentous something in the picture’s midst. That once foundout, and all the rest were plain. But stop; does it not bear a faintresemblance to a gigantic fish? even the great leviathan himself?In fact, the artist’s design seemed this: a final theory of my own,partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons withwhom I conversed upon the subject. The picture represents a Cape-Hornerin a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with itsthree dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale,purposing to spring clean over the craft, is in the enormous act ofimpaling himself upon the three mast-heads.The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenisharray of monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set withglittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knotsof human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweepinground like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armedmower. You shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibaland savage could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking,horrifying implement. Mixed with these were rusty old whaling lancesand harpoons all broken and deformed. Some were storied weapons. Withthis once long lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did NathanSwain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And thatharpoon—so like a corkscrew now—was flung in Javan seas, and run awaywith by a whale, years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco. Theoriginal iron entered nigh the tail, and, like a restless needlesojourning in the body of a man, travelled full forty feet, and at lastwas found imbedded in the hump.Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way—cutthrough what in old times must have been a great central chimney withfireplaces all round—you enter the public room. A still duskier placeis this, with such low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkledplanks beneath, that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft’scockpits, especially of such a howling night, when this corner-anchoredold ark rocked so furiously. On one side stood a long, low, shelf-liketable covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty raritiesgathered from this wide world’s remotest nooks. Projecting from thefurther angle of the room stands a dark-looking den—the bar—a rudeattempt at a right whale’s head. Be that how it may, there stands thevast arched bone of the whale’s jaw, so wide, a coach might almostdrive beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with olddecanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction,like another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him),bustles a little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sellsthe sailors deliriums and death.Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though truecylinders without—within, the villanous green goggling glassesdeceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridiansrudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads’ goblets. Fill tothis mark, and your charge is but a penny; to this a penny more;and so on to the full glass—the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulpdown for a shilling.Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered abouta table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of skrimshander. Isought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated witha room, received for answer that his house was full—not a bedunoccupied. “But avast,” he added, tapping his forehead, “you haint noobjections to sharing a harpooneer’s blanket, have ye? I s’pose you aregoin’ a-whalin’, so you’d better get used to that sort of thing.”I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I shouldever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and thatif he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and theharpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wanderfurther about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up withthe half of any decent man’s blanket.“I thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?—you want supper?Supper’ll be ready directly.”I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on theBattery. At one end a ruminating tar was still further adorning it withhis jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the spacebetween his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, buthe didn’t make much headway, I thought.At last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in anadjoining room. It was cold as Iceland—no fire at all—the landlord saidhe couldn’t afford it. Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in awinding sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and holdto our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers. But thefare was of the most substantial kind—not only meat and potatoes, butdumplings; good heavens! dumplings for supper! One young fellow in agreen box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direfulmanner.“My boy,” said the landlord, “you’ll have the nightmare to a deadsartainty.”“Landlord,” I whispered, “that aint the harpooneer is it?”“Oh, no,” said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, “theharpooneer is a dark complexioned chap. He never eats dumplings, hedon’t—he eats nothing but steaks, and he likes ’em rare.”“The devil he does,” says I. “Where is that harpooneer? Is he here?”“He’ll be here afore long,” was the answer.I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this “darkcomplexioned” harpooneer. At any rate, I made up my mind that if it soturned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get intobed before I did.Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing notwhat else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of theevening as a looker on.Presently a rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, the landlordcried, “That’s the Grampus’s crew. I seed her reported in the offingthis morning; a three years’ voyage, and a full ship. Hurrah, boys; nowwe’ll have the latest news from the Feegees.”A tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flungopen, and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough. Enveloped in theirshaggy watch coats, and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters,all bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, theyseemed an eruption of bears from Labrador. They had just landed fromtheir boat, and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then,that they made a straight wake for the whale’s mouth—the bar—when thewrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them outbrimmers all round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, uponwhich Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which heswore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, nevermind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador,or on the weather side of an ice-island.The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does evenwith the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they begancapering about most obstreperously.I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and thoughhe seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by hisown sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as muchnoise as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since thesea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (thoughbut a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), Iwill here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full sixfeet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. Ihave seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown andburnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in thedeep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seemto give him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was aSoutherner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be one ofthose tall mountaineers from the Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. Whenthe revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this manslipped away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became mycomrade on the sea. In a few minutes, however, he was missed by hisshipmates, and being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite withthem, they raised a cry of “Bulkington! Bulkington! where’sBulkington?” and darted out of the house in pursuit of him.It was now about nine o’clock, and the room seeming almostsupernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myselfupon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to theentrance of the seamen.No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you would a good dealrather not sleep with your own brother. I don’t know how it is, butpeople like to be private when they are sleeping. And when it comes tosleeping with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town,and that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitelymultiply. Nor was there any earthly reason why I as a sailor shouldsleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleeptwo in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore. To be sure they allsleep together in one apartment, but you have your own hammock, andcover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your own skin.The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated thethought of sleeping with him. It was fair to presume that being aharpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be ofthe tidiest, certainly none of the finest. I began to twitch all over.Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be homeand going bedwards. Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me atmidnight—how could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming?“Landlord! I’ve changed my mind about that harpooneer.—I shan’t sleepwith him. I’ll try the bench here.”“Just as you please; I’m sorry I can’t spare ye a tablecloth for amattress, and it’s a plaguy rough board here”—feeling of the knots andnotches. “But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I’ve got a carpenter’s planethere in the bar—wait, I say, and I’ll make ye snug enough.” So sayinghe procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dustingthe bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinninglike an ape. The shavings flew right and left; till at last theplane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The landlord wasnear spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven’s sake to quit—thebed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planingin the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up theshavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove inthe middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in abrown study.I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot tooshort; but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot toonarrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higherthan the planed one—so there was no yoking them. I then placed thefirst bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall,leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But Isoon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me fromunder the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all,especially as another current from the rickety door met the one fromthe window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds inthe immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend thenight.The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn’t I steala march on him—bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to bewakened by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but uponsecond thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what the nextmorning, so soon as I popped out of the room, the harpooneer might bestanding in the entry, all ready to knock me down!Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible chance ofspending a sufferable night unless in some other person’s bed, I beganto think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudicesagainst this unknown harpooneer. Thinks I, I’ll wait awhile; he must bedropping in before long. I’ll have a good look at him then, and perhapswe may become jolly good bedfellows after all—there’s no telling.But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes,and going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.“Landlord!” said I, “what sort of a chap is he—does he always keep suchlate hours?” It was now hard upon twelve o’clock.The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to bemightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension. “No,” heanswered, “generally he’s an early bird—airley to bed and airley torise—yes, he’s the bird what catches the worm. But to-night he went outa peddling, you see, and I don’t see what on airth keeps him so late,unless, may be, he can’t sell his head.”“Can’t sell his head?—What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you aretelling me?” getting into a towering rage. “Do you pretend to say,landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessedSaturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head aroundthis town?”“That’s precisely it,” said the landlord, “and I told him he couldn’tsell it here, the market’s overstocked.”“With what?” shouted I.“With heads to be sure; ain’t there too many heads in the world?”“I tell you what it is, landlord,” said I quite calmly, “you’d betterstop spinning that yarn to me—I’m not green.”“May be not,” taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, “but Irayther guess you’ll be done brown if that ere harpooneer hears you aslanderin’ his head.”“I’ll break it for him,” said I, now flying into a passion again atthis unaccountable farrago of the landlord’s.“It’s broke a’ready,” said he.“Broke,” said I—“broke, do you mean?”“Sartain, and that’s the very reason he can’t sell it, I guess.”“Landlord,” said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. Hecla in asnow-storm—“landlord, stop whittling. You and I must understand oneanother, and that too without delay. I come to your house and want abed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other halfbelongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this harpooneer, whom I havenot yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying andexasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feelingtowards the man whom you design for my bedfellow—a sort of connexion,landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highestdegree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what thisharpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend thenight with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsaythat story about selling his head, which if true I take to be goodevidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I’ve no idea ofsleeping with a madman; and you, sir, you I mean, landlord, you,sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby renderyourself liable to a criminal prosecution.”“Wall,” said the landlord, fetching a long breath, “that’s a purty longsarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, beeasy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin’ you of has just arrivedfrom the south seas, where he bought up a lot of ’balmed New Zealandheads (great curios, you know), and he’s sold all on ’em but one, andthat one he’s trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow’s Sunday, and itwould not do to be sellin’ human heads about the streets when folks isgoin’ to churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just ashe was goin’ out of the door with four heads strung on a string, forall the airth like a string of inions.”This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showedthat the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me—but at thesame time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of aSaturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibalbusiness as selling the heads of dead idolators?“Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man.”“He pays reg’lar,” was the rejoinder. “But come, it’s getting dreadfullate, you had better be turning flukes—it’s a nice bed; Sal and meslept in that ere bed the night we were spliced. There’s plenty of roomfor two to kick about in that bed; it’s an almighty big bed that. Why,afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in thefoot of it. But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, andsomehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.Arter that, Sal said it wouldn’t do. Come along here, I’ll give ye aglim in a jiffy;” and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towardsme, offering to lead the way. But I stood irresolute; when looking at aclock in the corner, he exclaimed “I vum it’s Sunday—you won’t see thatharpooneer to-night; he’s come to anchor somewhere—come along then;do come; won’t ye come?”I considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I wasushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough,with a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any fourharpooneers to sleep abreast.“There,” said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chestthat did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; “there, makeyourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.” I turned round fromeyeing the bed, but he had disappeared.Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. Though none ofthe most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well. I thenglanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table,could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf,the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking awhale. Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was ahammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also alarge seaman’s bag, containing the harpooneer’s wardrobe, no doubt inlieu of a land trunk. Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bonefish hooks on the shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoonstanding at the head of the bed.But what is this on the chest? I took it up, and held it close to thelight, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible toarrive at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare itto nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with littletinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round anIndian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat, asyou see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possiblethat any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade thestreets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, totry it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggyand thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysteriousharpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bitof glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in mylife. I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kinkin the neck.I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about thishead-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time onthe bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood inthe middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought alittle more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now,half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said aboutthe harpooneer’s not coming home at all that night, it being so verylate, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots,and then blowing out the light tumbled into bed, and commended myselfto the care of heaven.Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery,there is no telling, but I rolled about a good deal, and could notsleep for a long time. At last I slid off into a light doze, and hadpretty nearly made a good offing towards the land of Nod, when I hearda heavy footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light come intothe room from under the door.Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernalhead-peddler. But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a wordtill spoken to. Holding a light in one hand, and that identical NewZealand head in the other, the stranger entered the room, and withoutlooking towards the bed, placed his candle a good way off from me onthe floor in one corner, and then began working away at the knottedcords of the large bag I before spoke of as being in the room. I wasall eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some timewhile employed in unlacing the bag’s mouth. This accomplished, however,he turned round—when, good heavens! what a sight! Such a face! It wasof a dark, purplish, yellow colour, here and there stuck over withlarge blackish looking squares. Yes, it’s just as I thought, he’s aterrible bedfellow; he’s been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and herehe is, just from the surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to turn hisface so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not besticking-plasters at all, those black squares on his cheeks. They werestains of some sort or other. At first I knew not what to make of this;but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. I remembered a storyof a white man—a whaleman too—who, falling among the cannibals, hadbeen tattooed by them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the courseof his distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. Andwhat is it, thought I, after all! It’s only his outside; a man can behonest in any sort of skin. But then, what to make of his unearthlycomplexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completelyindependent of the squares of tattooing. To be sure, it might benothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hotsun’s tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one. However, I hadnever been in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced theseextraordinary effects upon the skin. Now, while all these ideas werepassing through me like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me atall. But, after some difficulty having opened his bag, he commencedfumbling in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and aseal-skin wallet with the hair on. Placing these on the old chest inthe middle of the room, he then took the New Zealand head—a ghastlything enough—and crammed it down into the bag. He now took off hishat—a new beaver hat—when I came nigh singing out with fresh surprise.There was no hair on his head—none to speak of at least—nothing but asmall scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His bald purplish head nowlooked for all the world like a mildewed skull. Had not the strangerstood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quickerthan ever I bolted a dinner.Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, butit was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of thishead-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed andconfounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid ofhim as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room atthe dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not gameenough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answerconcerning what seemed inexplicable in him.Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showedhis chest and arms. As I live, these covered parts of him werecheckered with the same squares as his face; his back, too, was allover the same dark squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years’War, and just escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. Stillmore, his very legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogswere running up the trunks of young palms. It was now quite plain thathe must be some abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whalemanin the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian country. I quaked tothink of it. A peddler of heads too—perhaps the heads of his ownbrothers. He might take a fancy to mine—heavens! look at that tomahawk!But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went aboutsomething that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced methat he must indeed be a heathen. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall,or dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled inthe pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed imagewith a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days’ oldCongo baby. Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thoughtthat this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similarmanner. But seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glisteneda good deal like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothingbut a wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savagegoes up to the empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board,sets up this little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between theandirons. The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty,so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrineor chapel for his Congo idol.I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half hidden image, feeling butill at ease meantime—to see what was next to follow. First he takesabout a double handful of shavings out of his grego pocket, and placesthem carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship biscuit ontop and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings intoa sacrificial blaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into thefire, and still hastier withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemedto be scorching them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out thebiscuit; then blowing off the heat and ashes a little, he made a politeoffer of it to the little negro. But the little devil did not seem tofancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never moved his lips. All thesestrange antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises fromthe devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or else singingsome pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched about inthe most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took theidol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocketas carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.All these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeinghim now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his businessoperations, and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time,now or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in whichI had so long been bound.But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it foran instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at thehandle, he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next momentthe light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk betweenhis teeth, sprang into bed with me. I sang out, I could not help itnow; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from himagainst the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he mightbe, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again. But hisguttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended mymeaning.“Who-e debel you?”—he at last said—“you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e.”And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in thedark.“Landlord, for God’s sake, Peter Coffin!” shouted I. “Landlord! Watch!Coffin! Angels! save me!”“Speak-e! tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!” again growled thecannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the tomahawk scattered thehot tobacco ashes about me till I thought my linen would get on fire.But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord came into the room lightin hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.“Don’t be afraid now,” said he, grinning again, “Queequeg here wouldn’tharm a hair of your head.”“Stop your grinning,” shouted I, “and why didn’t you tell me that thatinfernal harpooneer was a cannibal?”“I thought ye know’d it;—didn’t I tell ye, he was a peddlin’ headsaround town?—but turn flukes again and go to sleep. Queequeg, lookhere—you sabbee me, I sabbee—you this man sleepe you—you sabbee?”“Me sabbee plenty”—grunted Queequeg, puffing away at his pipe andsitting up in bed.“You gettee in,” he added, motioning to me with his tomahawk, andthrowing the clothes to one side. He really did this in not only acivil but a really kind and charitable way. I stood looking at him amoment. For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comelylooking cannibal. What’s all this fuss I have been making about,thought I to myself—the man’s a human being just as I am: he has justas much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him. Better sleepwith a sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.“Landlord,” said I, “tell him to stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, orwhatever you call it; tell him to stop smoking, in short, and I willturn in with him. But I don’t fancy having a man smoking in bed withme. It’s dangerous. Besides, I ain’t insured.”This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politelymotioned me to get into bed—rolling over to one side as much as tosay—“I won’t touch a leg of ye.”“Good night, landlord,” said I, “you may go.”I turned in, and never slept better in my life.CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.Upon waking next morning about daylight, I found Queequeg’s arm thrownover me in the most loving and affectionate manner. You had almostthought I had been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full ofodd little parti-coloured squares and triangles; and this arm of histattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a figure, notwo parts of which were of one precise shade—owing I suppose to hiskeeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirtsleeves irregularly rolled up at various times—this same arm of his, Isay, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchworkquilt. Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, Icould hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their huestogether; and it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that Icould tell that Queequeg was hugging me.My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When I was achild, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me;whether it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle. Thecircumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or other—Ithink it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a littlesweep do a few days previous; and my stepmother who, somehow or other,was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,—mymother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off tobed, though it was only two o’clock in the afternoon of the 21st June,the longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. Butthere was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in thethird floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time,and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.I lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapsebefore I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! the smallof my back ached to think of it. And it was so light too; the sunshining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in thestreets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house. I felt worseand worse—at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in mystockinged feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself ather feet, beseeching her as a particular favour to give me a goodslippering for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning me tolie abed such an unendurable length of time. But she was the best andmost conscientious of stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room. Forseveral hours I lay there broad awake, feeling a great deal worse thanI have ever done since, even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes.At last I must have fallen into a troubled nightmare of a doze; andslowly waking from it—half steeped in dreams—I opened my eyes, and thebefore sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer darkness. Instantly I felta shock running through all my frame; nothing was to be seen, andnothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in mine.My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless, unimaginable,silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed closelyseated by my bed-side. For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there,frozen with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand; yetever thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horridspell would be broken. I knew not how this consciousness at last glidedaway from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered itall, and for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself inconfounding attempts to explain the mystery. Nay, to this very hour, Ioften puzzle myself with it.Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling thesupernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, tothose which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg’s pagan armthrown round me. But at length all the past night’s events soberlyrecurred, one by one, in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive tothe comical predicament. For though I tried to move his arm—unlock hisbridegroom clasp—yet, sleeping as he was, he still hugged me tightly,as though naught but death should part us twain. I now strove to rousehim—“Queequeg!”—but his only answer was a snore. I then rolled over, myneck feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt aslight scratch. Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawksleeping by the savage’s side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby. Apretty pickle, truly, thought I; abed here in a strange house in thebroad day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk! “Queequeg!—in the name ofgoodness, Queequeg, wake!” At length, by dint of much wriggling, andloud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of hishugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded inextracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himselfall over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up inbed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as ifhe did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dimconsciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning overhim. Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivingsnow, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, atlast, his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow,and he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out uponthe floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that,if it pleased me, he would dress first and then leave me to dressafterwards, leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg,under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, thetruth is, these savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what youwill; it is marvellous how essentially polite they are. I pay thisparticular compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so muchcivility and consideration, while I was guilty of great rudeness;staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette motions; forthe time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding. Nevertheless,a man like Queequeg you don’t see every day, he and his ways were wellworth unusual regarding.He commenced dressing at top by donning his beaver hat, a very tallone, by the by, and then—still minus his trowsers—he hunted up hisboots. What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot tell, but hisnext movement was to crush himself—boots in hand, and hat on—under thebed; when, from sundry violent gaspings and strainings, I inferred hewas hard at work booting himself; though by no law of propriety that Iever heard of, is any man required to be private when putting on hisboots. But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature in the transitionstage—neither caterpillar nor butterfly. He was just enough civilizedto show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manners. Hiseducation was not yet completed. He was an undergraduate. If he had notbeen a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have troubledhimself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a savage,he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on. Atlast, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down overhis eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, notbeing much accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhideones—probably not made to order either—rather pinched and tormented himat the first go off of a bitter cold morning.Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window, and that thestreet being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain viewinto the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure thatQueequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on;I begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat, andparticularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible. Hecomplied, and then proceeded to wash himself. At that time in themorning any Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to myamazement, contented himself with restricting his ablutions to hischest, arms, and hands. He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up apiece of hard soap on the wash-stand centre table, dipped it into waterand commenced lathering his face. I was watching to see where he kepthis razor, when lo and behold, he takes the harpoon from the bedcorner, slips out the long wooden stock, unsheathes the head, whets ita little on his boot, and striding up to the bit of mirror against thewall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rather harpooning of his cheeks.Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers’s best cutlery with avengeance. Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation when I cameto know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and howexceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out ofthe room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting hisharpoon like a marshal’s baton.CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.I quickly followed suit, and descending into the bar-room accosted thegrinning landlord very pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him,though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of mybedfellow.However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rather too scarce agood thing; the more’s the pity. So, if any one man, in his own properperson, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not bebackward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent inthat way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable abouthim, be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.The bar-room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in thenight previous, and whom I had not as yet had a good look at. They werenearly all whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third mates,and sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea blacksmiths, andharpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and brawny company, with boskybeards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morninggowns.You could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore. Thisyoung fellow’s healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted pear in hue, andwould seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been three dayslanded from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shadeslighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In thecomplexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightlybleached withal; he doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore. But whocould show a cheek like Queequeg? which, barred with various tints,seemed like the Andes’ western slope, to show forth in one array,contrasting climates, zone by zone.“Grub, ho!” now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in wewent to breakfast.They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at easein manner, quite self-possessed in company. Not always, though:Ledyard, the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotchone; of all men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor. Butperhaps the mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs asLedyard did, or the taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, inthe negro heart of Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo’sperformances—this kind of travel, I say, may not be the very best modeof attaining a high social polish. Still, for the most part, that sortof thing is to be had anywhere.These reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance thatafter we were all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear somegood stories about whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every manmaintained a profound silence. And not only that, but they lookedembarrassed. Yes, here were a set of sea-dogs, many of whom without theslightest bashfulness had boarded great whales on the high seas—entirestrangers to them—and duelled them dead without winking; and yet, herethey sat at a social breakfast table—all of the same calling, all ofkindred tastes—looking round as sheepishly at each other as though theyhad never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the GreenMountains. A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid warriorwhalemen!But as for Queequeg—why, Queequeg sat there among them—at the head ofthe table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle. To be sure Icannot say much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could not havecordially justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him,and using it there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it,to the imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteakstowards him. But that was certainly very coolly done by him, andevery one knows that in most people’s estimation, to do anything coollyis to do it genteelly.We will not speak of all Queequeg’s peculiarities here; how he eschewedcoffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention tobeefsteaks, done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrewlike the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and wassitting there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable haton, when I sallied out for a stroll.CHAPTER 6. The Street.If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandishan individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of acivilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon taking my firstdaylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.In thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport willfrequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreignparts. Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean marinerswill sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Street is notunknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, liveYankees have often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats all WaterStreet and Wapping. In these last-mentioned haunts you see onlysailors; but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at streetcorners; savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholyflesh. It makes a stranger stare.But, besides the Feegeeans, Tongatobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians,and Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craftwhich unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights stillmore curious, certainly more comical. There weekly arrive in this townscores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gainand glory in the fishery. They are mostly young, of stalwart frames;fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe andsnatch the whale-lance. Many are as green as the Green Mountains whencethey came. In some things you would think them but a few hours old.Look there! that chap strutting round the corner. He wears a beaver hatand swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife.Here comes another with a sou’-wester and a bombazine cloak.No town-bred dandy will compare with a country-bred one—I mean adownright bumpkin dandy—a fellow that, in the dog-days, will mow histwo acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when acountry dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguishedreputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see thecomical things he does upon reaching the seaport. In bespeaking hissea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps to hiscanvas trowsers. Ah, poor Hay-Seed! how bitterly will burst thosestraps in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps,buttons, and all, down the throat of the tempest.But think not that this famous town has only harpooneers, cannibals,and bumpkins to show her visitors. Not at all. Still New Bedford is aqueer place. Had it not been for us whalemen, that tract of land wouldthis day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the coast ofLabrador. As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frightenone, they look so bony. The town itself is perhaps the dearest place tolive in, in all New England. It is a land of oil, true enough: but notlike Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine. The streets do not runwith milk; nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs.Yet, in spite of this, nowhere in all America will you find morepatrician-like houses; parks and gardens more opulent, than in NewBedford. Whence came they? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria ofa country?Go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder loftymansion, and your question will be answered. Yes; all these bravehouses and flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indianoceans. One and all, they were harpooned and dragged up hither from thebottom of the sea. Can Herr Alexander perform a feat like that?In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to theirdaughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say,they have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklesslyburn their lengths in spermaceti candles.In summer time, the town is sweet to see; full of fine maples—longavenues of green and gold. And in August, high in air, the beautifuland bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-bytheir tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent isart; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced brightterraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside atcreation’s final day.And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses. Butroses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeksis perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match thatbloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the younggirls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles offshore, as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead ofthe Puritanic sands.CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.In this same New Bedford there stands a Whaleman’s Chapel, and few arethe moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, whofail to make a Sunday visit to the spot. I am sure that I did not.Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon thisspecial errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to drivingsleet and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth calledbearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering, I founda small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors’ wives andwidows. A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieksof the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apartfrom the other, as if each silent grief were insular andincommunicable. The chaplain had not yet arrived; and there thesesilent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marbletablets, with black borders, masoned into the wall on either side thepulpit. Three of them ran something like the following, but I do notpretend to quote:—SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF JOHN TALBOT, Who, at the age of eighteen, waslost overboard, Near the Isle of Desolation, off Patagonia, November1st, 1836. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS SISTER.SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF ROBERT LONG, WILLIS ELLERY, NATHAN COLEMAN,WALTER CANNY, SETH MACY, AND SAMUEL GLEIG, Forming one of the boats’crews OF THE SHIP ELIZA Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On theOff-shore Ground in the PACIFIC, December 31st, 1839. THIS MARBLEIs here placed by their surviving SHIPMATES.SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF The late CAPTAIN EZEKIEL HARDY, Who in the bowsof his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, August3d, 1833. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS WIDOW.Shaking off the sleet from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seatedmyself near the door, and turning sideways was surprised to seeQueequeg near me. Affected by the solemnity of the scene, there was awondering gaze of incredulous curiosity in his countenance. This savagewas the only person present who seemed to notice my entrance; becausehe was the only one who could not read, and, therefore, was not readingthose frigid inscriptions on the wall. Whether any of the relatives ofthe seamen whose names appeared there were now among the congregation,I knew not; but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the fishery,and so plainly did several women present wear the countenance if notthe trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that herebefore me were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight ofthose bleak tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleedafresh.Oh! ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standingamong flowers can say—here, here lies my beloved; ye know not thedesolation that broods in bosoms like these. What bitter blanks inthose black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes! What despair inthose immovable inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbiddeninfidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuseresurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without agrave. As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta ashere.In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included;why it is that a universal proverb says of them, that they tell notales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it isthat to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefixso significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, ifhe but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why theLife Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in whateternal, unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet liesantique Adam who died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that westill refuse to be comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain aredwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all the living so strive to hush allthe dead; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrifya whole city. All these things are not without their meanings.But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from thesedead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of aNantucket voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murkylight of that darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen whohad gone before me. Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine. Butsomehow I grew merry again. Delightful inducements to embark, finechance for promotion, it seems—aye, a stove boat will make me animmortal by brevet. Yes, there is death in this business of whaling—aspeechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity. But whatthen? Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of Life and Death.Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my truesubstance. Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are toomuch like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinkingthat thick water the thinnest of air. Methinks my body is but the leesof my better being. In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it isnot me. And therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boatand stove body when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit.I had not been seated very long ere a man of a certain venerablerobustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted door flew back uponadmitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all the congregation,sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the chaplain. Yes, itwas the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen, among whom hewas a very great favourite. He had been a sailor and a harpooneer inhis youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to theministry. At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardywinter of a healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merginginto a second flowering youth, for among all the fissures of hiswrinkles, there shone certain mild gleams of a newly developingbloom—the spring verdure peeping forth even beneath February’s snow. Noone having previously heard his history, could for the first timebehold Father Mapple without the utmost interest, because there werecertain engrafted clerical peculiarities about him, imputable to thatadventurous maritime life he had led. When he entered I observed thathe carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come in his carriage, forhis tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet, and his great pilotcloth jacket seemed almost to drag him to the floor with the weight ofthe water it had absorbed. However, hat and coat and overshoes were oneby one removed, and hung up in a little space in an adjacent corner;when, arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached the pulpit.Like most old fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since aregular stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with thefloor, seriously contract the already small area of the chapel, thearchitect, it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, andfinished the pulpit without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular sideladder, like those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wifeof a whaling captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair ofred worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicelyheaded, and stained with a mahogany colour, the whole contrivance,considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in badtaste. Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with bothhands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapplecast a look upwards, and then with a truly sailor-like but stillreverential dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as ifascending the main-top of his vessel.The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the casewith swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were ofwood, so that at every step there was a joint. At my first glimpse ofthe pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship,these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was notprepared to see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turnround, and stooping over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladderstep by step, till the whole was deposited within, leaving himimpregnable in his little Quebec.I pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.Father Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity andsanctity, that I could not suspect him of courting notoriety by anymere tricks of the stage. No, thought I, there must be some soberreason for this thing; furthermore, it must symbolize something unseen.Can it be, then, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifieshis spiritual withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly tiesand connexions? Yes, for replenished with the meat and wine of theword, to the faithful man of God, this pulpit, I see, is aself-containing stronghold—a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennialwell of water within the walls.But the side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place,borrowed from the chaplain’s former sea-farings. Between the marblecenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which formed its backwas adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship beatingagainst a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowybreakers. But high above the flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, therefloated a little isle of sunlight, from which beamed forth an angel’sface; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon theship’s tossed deck, something like that silver plate now inserted intothe Victory’s plank where Nelson fell. “Ah, noble ship,” the angelseemed to say, “beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and bear a hardyhelm; for lo! the sun is breaking through; the clouds are rollingoff—serenest azure is at hand.”Nor was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea-taste thathad achieved the ladder and the picture. Its panelled front was in thelikeness of a ship’s bluff bows, and the Holy Bible rested on aprojecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship’s fiddle-headedbeak.What could be more full of meaning?—for the pulpit is ever this earth’sforemost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit leads theworld. From thence it is the storm of God’s quick wrath is firstdescried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt. From thence it isthe God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds.Yes, the world’s a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete;and the pulpit is its prow.CHAPTER 9. The Sermon.Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of unassuming authority orderedthe scattered people to condense. “Starboard gangway, there! side awayto larboard—larboard gangway to starboard! Midships! midships!”There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the benches, and astill slighter shuffling of women’s shoes, and all was quiet again, andevery eye on the preacher.He paused a little; then kneeling in the pulpit’s bows, folded hislarge brown hands across his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, andoffered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and prayingat the bottom of the sea.This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling of abell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog—in such tones hecommenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towardsthe concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy— “The ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom, While all God’s sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down to doom. “I saw the opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows there; Which none but they that feel can tell— Oh, I was plunging to despair. “In black distress, I called my God, When I could scarce believe him mine, He bowed his ear to my complaints— No more the whale did me confine. “With speed he flew to my relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne; Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone The face of my Deliverer God. “My song for ever shall record That terrible, that joyful hour; I give the glory to my God, His all the mercy and the power.”Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above thehowling of the storm. A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turnedover the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down uponthe proper page, said: “Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of thefirst chapter of Jonah—‘And God had prepared a great fish to swallow upJonah.’”“Shipmates, this book, containing only four chapters—four yarns—is oneof the smallest strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures. Yet whatdepths of the soul does Jonah’s deep sealine sound! what a pregnantlesson to us is this prophet! What a noble thing is that canticle inthe fish’s belly! How billow-like and boisterously grand! We feel thefloods surging over us; we sound with him to the kelpy bottom of thewaters; sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is about us! But whatis this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches? Shipmates, it is atwo-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men, and a lesson tome as a pilot of the living God. As sinful men, it is a lesson to usall, because it is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness, suddenlyawakened fears, the swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finallythe deliverance and joy of Jonah. As with all sinners among men, thesin of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of thecommand of God—never mind now what that command was, or howconveyed—which he found a hard command. But all the things that Godwould have us do are hard for us to do—remember that—and hence, heoftener commands us than endeavors to persuade. And if we obey God, wemust disobey ourselves; and it is in this disobeying ourselves, whereinthe hardness of obeying God consists.“With this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts atGod, by seeking to flee from Him. He thinks that a ship made by menwill carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only theCaptains of this earth. He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeksa ship that’s bound for Tarshish. There lurks, perhaps, a hithertounheeded meaning here. By all accounts Tarshish could have been noother city than the modern Cadiz. That’s the opinion of learned men.And where is Cadiz, shipmates? Cadiz is in Spain; as far by water, fromJoppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days, whenthe Atlantic was an almost unknown sea. Because Joppa, the modernJaffa, shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the Mediterranean,the Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles to thewestward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar. See ye notthen, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?Miserable man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; withslouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among theshipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas. Sodisordered, self-condemning is his look, that had there been policemenin those days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, hadbeen arrested ere he touched a deck. How plainly he’s a fugitive! nobaggage, not a hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,—no friends accompany himto the wharf with their adieux. At last, after much dodging search, hefinds the Tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo; and ashe steps on board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors forthe moment desist from hoisting in the goods, to mark the stranger’sevil eye. Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease andconfidence; in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of theman assure the mariners he can be no innocent. In their gamesome butstill serious way, one whispers to the other—“Jack, he’s robbed awidow;” or, “Joe, do you mark him; he’s a bigamist;” or, “Harry lad, Iguess he’s the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike,one of the missing murderers from Sodom.” Another runs to read the billthat’s stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship ismoored, offering five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of aparricide, and containing a description of his person. He reads, andlooks from Jonah to the bill; while all his sympathetic shipmates nowcrowd round Jonah, prepared to lay their hands upon him. Frighted Jonahtrembles, and summoning all his boldness to his face, only looks somuch the more a coward. He will not confess himself suspected; but thatitself is strong suspicion. So he makes the best of it; and when thesailors find him not to be the man that is advertised, they let himpass, and he descends into the cabin.“‘Who’s there?’ cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly makingout his papers for the Customs—‘Who’s there?’ Oh! how that harmlessquestion mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost turns to flee again.But he rallies. ‘I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soonsail ye, sir?’ Thus far the busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah,though the man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear thathollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance. ‘We sail with thenext coming tide,’ at last he slowly answered, still intently eyeinghim. ‘No sooner, sir?’—‘Soon enough for any honest man that goes apassenger.’ Ha! Jonah, that’s another stab. But he swiftly calls awaythe Captain from that scent. ‘I’ll sail with ye,’—he says,—‘the passagemoney how much is that?—I’ll pay now.’ For it is particularly written,shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history,‘that he paid the fare thereof’ ere the craft did sail. And taken withthe context, this is full of meaning.“Now Jonah’s Captain, shipmates, was one whose discernment detectscrime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the penniless. Inthis world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely, andwithout a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at allfrontiers. So Jonah’s Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah’spurse, ere he judge him openly. He charges him thrice the usual sum;and it’s assented to. Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive;but at the same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear withgold. Yet when Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicionsstill molest the Captain. He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.Not a forger, any way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for hispassage. ‘Point out my state-room, Sir,’ says Jonah now, ‘I’mtravel-weary; I need sleep.’ ‘Thou lookest like it,’ says the Captain,‘there’s thy room.’ Jonah enters, and would lock the door, but the lockcontains no key. Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the Captainlaughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors ofconvicts’ cells being never allowed to be locked within. All dressedand dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds thelittle state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead. The air isclose, and Jonah gasps. Then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too,beneath the ship’s water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentimentof that stifling hour, when the whale shall hold him in the smallest ofhis bowels’ wards.“Screwed at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightlyoscillates in Jonah’s room; and the ship, heeling over towards thewharf with the weight of the last bales received, the lamp, flame andall, though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquitywith reference to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straightitself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels among which ithung. The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth histormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successfulfugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance. But thatcontradiction in the lamp more and more appals him. The floor, theceiling, and the side, are all awry. ‘Oh! so my conscience hangs inme!’ he groans, ‘straight upwards, so it burns; but the chambers of mysoul are all in crookedness!’“Like one who after a night of drunken revelry hies to his bed, stillreeling, but with conscience yet pricking him, as the plungings of theRoman race-horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him;as one who in that miserable plight still turns and turns in giddyanguish, praying God for annihilation until the fit be passed; and atlast amid the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals over him, asover the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, andthere’s naught to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth,Jonah’s prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.“And now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; andfrom the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening,glides to sea. That ship, my friends, was the first of recordedsmugglers! the contraband was Jonah. But the sea rebels; he will notbear the wicked burden. A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like tobreak. But now when the boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; whenboxes, bales, and jars are clattering overboard; when the wind isshrieking, and the men are yelling, and every plank thunders withtrampling feet right over Jonah’s head; in all this raging tumult,Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep. He sees no black sky and raging sea,feels not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he the farrush of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleavingthe seas after him. Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sidesof the ship—a berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fastasleep. But the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his deadear, ‘What meanest thou, O, sleeper! arise!’ Startled from his lethargyby that direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to thedeck, grasps a shroud, to look out upon the sea. But at that moment heis sprung upon by a panther billow leaping over the bulwarks. Waveafter wave thus leaps into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runsroaring fore and aft, till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yetafloat. And ever, as the white moon shows her affrighted face from thesteep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the rearingbowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards thetormented deep.“Terrors upon terrors run shouting through his soul. In all hiscringing attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly known. Thesailors mark him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of him,and at last, fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter tohigh Heaven, they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause thisgreat tempest was upon them. The lot is Jonah’s; that discovered, thenhow furiously they mob him with their questions. ‘What is thineoccupation? Whence comest thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now,my shipmates, the behavior of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but askhim who he is, and where from; whereas, they not only receive an answerto those questions, but likewise another answer to a question not putby them, but the unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by the hardhand of God that is upon him.“‘I am a Hebrew,’ he cries—and then—‘I fear the Lord the God of Heavenwho hath made the sea and the dry land!’ Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, wellmightest thou fear the Lord God then! Straightway, he now goes on tomake a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and moreappalled, but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicatingGod for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of hisdeserts,—when wretched Jonah cries out to them to take him and cast himforth into the sea, for he knew that for his sake this great tempestwas upon them; they mercifully turn from him, and seek by other meansto save the ship. But all in vain; the indignant gale howls louder;then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other they notunreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.“And now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea;when instantly an oily calmness floats out from the east, and the seais still, as Jonah carries down the gale with him, leaving smooth waterbehind. He goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterlesscommotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething intothe yawning jaws awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivoryteeth, like so many white bolts, upon his prison. Then Jonah prayedunto the Lord out of the fish’s belly. But observe his prayer, andlearn a weighty lesson. For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep andwail for direct deliverance. He feels that his dreadful punishment isjust. He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting himself withthis, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still look towardsHis holy temple. And here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance;not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment. And how pleasingto God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual deliveranceof him from the sea and the whale. Shipmates, I do not place Jonahbefore you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as amodel for repentance. Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of itlike Jonah.”While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who,when describing Jonah’s sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.His deep chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemedthe warring elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away fromoff his swarthy brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all hissimple hearers look on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.There now came a lull in his look, as he silently turned over theleaves of the Book once more; and, at last, standing motionless, withclosed eyes, for the moment, seemed communing with God and himself.But again he leaned over towards the people, and bowing his head lowly,with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility, he spake thesewords:“Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon you; both his hands pressupon me. I have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson thatJonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye, and still more tome, for I am a greater sinner than ye. And now how gladly would I comedown from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you sit,and listen as you listen, while some one of you reads me that otherand more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to me, as a pilot of theliving God. How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of truethings, and bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in theears of a wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled at the hostility he shouldraise, fled from his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his Godby taking ship at Joppa. But God is everywhere; Tarshish he neverreached. As we have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowedhim down to living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore himalong ‘into the midst of the seas,’ where the eddying depths sucked himten thousand fathoms down, and ‘the weeds were wrapped about his head,’and all the watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyondthe reach of any plummet—‘out of the belly of hell’—when the whalegrounded upon the ocean’s utmost bones, even then, God heard theengulphed, repenting prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto thefish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whalecame breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all thedelights of air and earth; and ‘vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;’when the word of the Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised andbeaten—his ears, like two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuringof the ocean—Jonah did the Almighty’s bidding. And what was that,shipmates? To preach the Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was it!“This, shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that pilot ofthe living God who slights it. Woe to him whom this world charms fromGospel duty! Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when Godhas brewed them into a gale! Woe to him who seeks to please rather thanto appal! Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness! Woeto him who, in this world, courts not dishonor! Woe to him who wouldnot be true, even though to be false were salvation! Yea, woe to himwho, as the great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others ishimself a castaway!”He dropped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting hisface to them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out witha heavenly enthusiasm,—“But oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand ofevery woe, there is a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight,than the bottom of the woe is deep. Is not the main-truck higher thanthe kelson is low? Delight is to him—a far, far upward, and inwarddelight—who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth, everstands forth his own inexorable self. Delight is to him whose strongarms yet support him, when the ship of this base treacherous world hasgone down beneath him. Delight is to him, who gives no quarter in thetruth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it outfrom under the robes of Senators and Judges. Delight,—top-gallantdelight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the Lord hisGod, and is only a patriot to heaven. Delight is to him, whom all thewaves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shakefrom this sure Keel of the Ages. And eternal delight and deliciousnesswill be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his finalbreath—O Father!—chiefly known to me by Thy rod—mortal or immortal,here I die. I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world’s,or mine own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what isman that he should live out the lifetime of his God?”He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction, covered his face withhis hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the people had departed,and he was left alone in the place.CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the Chapel, I found Queequeg therequite alone; he having left the Chapel before the benediction sometime. He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with his feet on thestove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his face thatlittle negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with ajack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming tohimself in his heathenish way.But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and pretty soon, goingto the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his lapbegan counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftiethpage—as I fancied—stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, andgiving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment. Hewould then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at numberone each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it wasonly by such a large number of fifties being found together, that hisastonishment at the multitude of pages was excited.With much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, andhideously marred about the face—at least to my taste—his countenanceyet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable. Youcannot hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought Isaw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes,fiery black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare athousand devils. And besides all this, there was a certain loftybearing about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could notaltogether maim. He looked like a man who had never cringed and neverhad had a creditor. Whether it was, too, that his head being shaved,his forehead was drawn out in freer and brighter relief, and lookedmore expansive than it otherwise would, this I will not venture todecide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically an excellentone. It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General Washington’shead, as seen in the popular busts of him. It had the same longregularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which werelikewise very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded ontop. Queequeg was George Washington cannibalistically developed.Whilst I was thus closely scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to belooking out at the storm from the casement, he never heeded mypresence, never troubled himself with so much as a single glance; butappeared wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellousbook. Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together the nightprevious, and especially considering the affectionate arm I had foundthrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this indifferenceof his very strange. But savages are strange beings; at times you donot know exactly how to take them. At first they are overawing; theircalm self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom. I hadnoticed also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little,with the other seamen in the inn. He made no advances whatever;appeared to have no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances.All this struck me as mighty singular; yet, upon second thoughts, therewas something almost sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousandmiles from home, by the way of Cape Horn, that is—which was the onlyway he could get there—thrown among people as strange to him as thoughhe were in the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed entirely at his ease;preserving the utmost serenity; content with his own companionship;always equal to himself. Surely this was a touch of fine philosophy;though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as that. But,perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be conscious ofso living or so striving. So soon as I hear that such or such a mangives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like thedyspeptic old woman, he must have “broken his digester.”As I sat there in that now lonely room; the fire burning low, in thatmild stage when, after its first intensity has warmed the air, it thenonly glows to be looked at; the evening shades and phantoms gatheringround the casements, and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain; thestorm booming without in solemn swells; I began to be sensible ofstrange feelings. I felt a melting in me. No more my splintered heartand maddened hand were turned against the wolfish world. This soothingsavage had redeemed it. There he sat, his very indifference speaking anature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies and blanddeceits. Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began tofeel myself mysteriously drawn towards him. And those same things thatwould have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thusdrew me. I’ll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindnesshas proved but hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made somefriendly signs and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile. Atfirst he little noticed these advances; but presently, upon myreferring to his last night’s hospitalities, he made out to ask mewhether we were again to be bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat Ithought he looked pleased, perhaps a little complimented.We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored to explain tohim the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few picturesthat were in it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that wewent to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights tobe seen in this famous town. Soon I proposed a social smoke; and,producing his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff. Andthen we sat exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and keeping itregularly passing between us.If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan’sbreast, this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, andleft us cronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally andunbiddenly as I to him; and when our smoke was over, he pressed hisforehead against mine, clasped me round the waist, and said thathenceforth we were married; meaning, in his country’s phrase, that wewere bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if need should be. In acountryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have seemed far toopremature, a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple savagethose old rules would not apply.After supper, and another social chat and smoke, we went to our roomtogether. He made me a present of his embalmed head; took out hisenormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the tobacco, drew out somethirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the table, andmechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of themtowards me, and said it was mine. I was going to remonstrate; but hesilenced me by pouring them into my trowsers’ pockets. I let them stay.He then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removedthe paper fireboard. By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemedanxious for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, Ideliberated a moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply orotherwise.I was a good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infalliblePresbyterian Church. How then could I unite with this wild idolator inworshipping his piece of wood? But what is worship? thought I. Do yousuppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven andearth—pagans and all included—can possibly be jealous of aninsignificant bit of black wood? Impossible! But what is worship?—to dothe will of God—that is worship. And what is the will of God?—to doto my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me—that isthe will of God. Now, Queequeg is my fellow man. And what do I wishthat this Queequeg would do to me? Why, unite with me in my particularPresbyterian form of worship. Consequently, I must then unite with himin his; ergo, I must turn idolator. So I kindled the shavings; helpedprop up the innocent little idol; offered him burnt biscuit withQueequeg; salamed before him twice or thrice; kissed his nose; and thatdone, we undressed and went to bed, at peace with our own consciencesand all the world. But we did not go to sleep without some little chat.How it is I know not; but there is no place like a bed for confidentialdisclosures between friends. Man and wife, they say, there open thevery bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples oftenlie and chat over old times till nearly morning. Thus, then, in ourhearts’ honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg—a cosy, loving pair.CHAPTER 11. Nightgown.We had lain thus in bed, chatting and napping at short intervals, andQueequeg now and then affectionately throwing his brown tattooed legsover mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely sociable and freeand easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our confabulations, whatlittle nappishness remained in us altogether departed, and we felt likegetting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future.Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent positionbegan to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselvessitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against thehead-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our twonoses bending over them, as if our kneepans were warming-pans. We feltvery nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors;indeed out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in theroom. The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, somesmall part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this worldthat is not what it is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself. Ifyou flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have beenso a long time, then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more. Butif, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip of your nose or the crownof your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the generalconsciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. Forthis reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire,which is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich. For the heightof this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanketbetween you and your snugness and the cold of the outer air. Then thereyou lie like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all atonce I thought I would open my eyes; for when between sheets, whetherby day or by night, and whether asleep or awake, I have a way of alwayskeeping my eyes shut, in order the more to concentrate the snugness ofbeing in bed. Because no man can ever feel his own identity arightexcept his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed the properelement of our essences, though light be more congenial to our clayeypart. Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant andself-created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of theunilluminated twelve-o’clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeablerevulsion. Nor did I at all object to the hint from Queequeg thatperhaps it were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wideawake; and besides he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffsfrom his Tomahawk. Be it said, that though I had felt such a strongrepugnance to his smoking in the bed the night before, yet see howelastic our stiff prejudices grow when love once comes to bend them.For now I liked nothing better than to have Queequeg smoking by me,even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such serene household joythen. I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord’s policy ofinsurance. I was only alive to the condensed confidentialcomfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend.With our shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed theTomahawk from one to the other, till slowly there grew over us a bluehanging tester of smoke, illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp.Whether it was that this undulating tester rolled the savage away tofar distant scenes, I know not, but he now spoke of his native island;and, eager to hear his history, I begged him to go on and tell it. Hegladly complied. Though at the time I but ill comprehended not a few ofhis words, yet subsequent disclosures, when I had become more familiarwith his broken phraseology, now enable me to present the whole storysuch as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.CHAPTER 12. Biographical.Queequeg was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away to the West andSouth. It is not down in any map; true places never are.When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native woodlands in agrass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a greensapling; even then, in Queequeg’s ambitious soul, lurked a strongdesire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler ortwo. His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; andon the maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives ofunconquerable warriors. There was excellent blood in his veins—royalstuff; though sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity henourished in his untutored youth.A Sag Harbor ship visited his father’s bay, and Queequeg sought apassage to Christian lands. But the ship, having her full complement ofseamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father’s influencecould prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddledoff to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through whenshe quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef; on the other alow tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out intothe water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, withits prow seaward, he sat down in the stern, paddle low in hand; andwhen the ship was gliding by, like a flash he darted out; gained herside; with one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe;climbed up the chains; and throwing himself at full length upon thedeck, grappled a ring-bolt there, and swore not to let it go, thoughhacked in pieces.In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended acutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, andQueequeg budged not. Struck by his desperate dauntlessness, and hiswild desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last relented, andtold him he might make himself at home. But this fine young savage—thissea Prince of Wales, never saw the Captain’s cabin. They put him downamong the sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czar Petercontent to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdainedno seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power ofenlightening his untutored countrymen. For at bottom—so he told me—hewas actuated by a profound desire to learn among the Christians, thearts whereby to make his people still happier than they were; and morethan that, still better than they were. But, alas! the practices ofwhalemen soon convinced him that even Christians could be bothmiserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all his father’sheathens. Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what thesailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how theyspent their wages in that place also, poor Queequeg gave it up forlost. Thought he, it’s a wicked world in all meridians; I’ll die apagan.And thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians,wore their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish. Hence the queerways about him, though now some time from home.By hints, I asked him whether he did not propose going back, and havinga coronation; since he might now consider his father dead and gone, hebeing very old and feeble at the last accounts. He answered no, notyet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rather Christians,had unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirtypagan Kings before him. But by and by, he said, he would return,—assoon as he felt himself baptized again. For the nonce, however, heproposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans. Theyhad made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of asceptre now.I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his futuremovements. He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation. Uponthis, I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of myintention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising portfor an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at once resolved toaccompany me to that island, ship aboard the same vessel, get into thesame watch, the same boat, the same mess with me, in short to share myevery hap; with both my hands in his, boldly dip into the Potluck ofboth worlds. To all this I joyously assented; for besides the affectionI now felt for Queequeg, he was an experienced harpooneer, and as such,could not fail to be of great usefulness to one, who, like me, waswholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though well acquaintedwith the sea, as known to merchant seamen.His story being ended with his pipe’s last dying puff, Queequegembraced me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out thelight, we rolled over from each other, this way and that, and very soonwere sleeping.CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.Next morning, Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber,for a block, I settled my own and comrade’s bill; using, however, mycomrade’s money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, seemedamazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up betweenme and Queequeg—especially as Peter Coffin’s cock and bull storiesabout him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very personwhom I now companied with.We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, including my ownpoor carpet-bag, and Queequeg’s canvas sack and hammock, away we wentdown to “the Moss,” the little Nantucket packet schooner moored at thewharf. As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg somuch—for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in theirstreets,—but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But weheeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequegnow and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. Iasked him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, andwhether all whaling ships did not find their own harpoons. To this, insubstance, he replied, that though what I hinted was true enough, yethe had a particular affection for his own harpoon, because it was ofassured stuff, well tried in many a mortal combat, and deeply intimatewith the hearts of whales. In short, like many inland reapers andmowers, who go into the farmers’ meadows armed with their ownscythes—though in no wise obliged to furnish them—even so, Queequeg,for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.Shifting the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story aboutthe first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. It was in Sag Harbor. Theowners of his ship, it seems, had lent him one, in which to carry hisheavy chest to his boarding house. Not to seem ignorant about thething—though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise way inwhich to manage the barrow—Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes itfast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf. “Why,”said I, “Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one wouldthink. Didn’t the people laugh?”Upon this, he told me another story. The people of his island ofRokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant waterof young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; andthis punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braidedmat where the feast is held. Now a certain grand merchant ship oncetouched at Rokovoko, and its commander—from all accounts, a verystately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain—thiscommander was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg’s sister, apretty young princess just turned of ten. Well; when all the weddingguests were assembled at the bride’s bamboo cottage, this Captainmarches in, and being assigned the post of honor, placed himself overagainst the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and his majesty theKing, Queequeg’s father. Grace being said,—for those people have theirgrace as well as we—though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who at suchtimes look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copyingthe ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts—Grace, Isay, being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorialceremony of the island; that is, dipping his consecrated andconsecrating fingers into the bowl before the blessed beveragecirculates. Seeing himself placed next the Priest, and noting theceremony, and thinking himself—being Captain of a ship—as having plainprecedence over a mere island King, especially in the King’s ownhouse—the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in thepunchbowl;—taking it I suppose for a huge finger-glass. “Now,” saidQueequeg, “what you tink now?—Didn’t our people laugh?”At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board theschooner. Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river. On oneside, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered treesall glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains ofcasks on casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side theworld-wandering whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; whilefrom others came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noisesof fires and forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruiseswere on the start; that one most perilous and long voyage ended, onlybegins a second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on,for ever and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerablenessof all earthly effort.Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the littleMoss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt hissnortings. How I snuffed that Tartar air!—how I spurned that turnpikeearth!—that common highway all over dented with the marks of slavishheels and hoofs; and turned me to admire the magnanimity of the seawhich will permit no records.At the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.His dusky nostrils swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointedteeth. On, on we flew; and our offing gained, the Moss did homage tothe blast; ducked and dived her bows as a slave before the Sultan.Sideways leaning, we sideways darted; every ropeyarn tingling like awire; the two tall masts buckling like Indian canes in land tornadoes.So full of this reeling scene were we, as we stood by the plungingbowsprit, that for some time we did not notice the jeering glances ofthe passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two fellowbeings should be so companionable; as though a white man were anythingmore dignified than a whitewashed negro. But there were some boobiesand bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have comefrom the heart and centre of all verdure. Queequeg caught one of theseyoung saplings mimicking him behind his back. I thought the bumpkin’shour of doom was come. Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage caughthim in his arms, and by an almost miraculous dexterity and strength,sent him high up bodily into the air; then slightly tapping his sternin mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon his feet,while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk pipeand passed it to me for a puff.“Capting! Capting!” yelled the bumpkin, running towards that officer;“Capting, Capting, here’s the devil.”“Hallo, you sir,” cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalkingup to Queequeg, “what in thunder do you mean by that? Don’t you knowyou might have killed that chap?”“What him say?” said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.“He say,” said I, “that you came near kill-e that man there,” pointingto the still shivering greenhorn.“Kill-e,” cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed face into an unearthlyexpression of disdain, “ah! him bevy small-e fish-e; Queequeg no kill-eso small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!”“Look you,” roared the Captain, “I’ll kill-e you, you cannibal, ifyou try any more of your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.”But it so happened just then, that it was high time for the Captain tomind his own eye. The prodigious strain upon the main-sail had partedthe weather-sheet, and the tremendous boom was now flying from side toside, completely sweeping the entire after part of the deck. The poorfellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was swept overboard; allhands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay it,seemed madness. It flew from right to left, and back again, almost inone ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point ofsnapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capableof being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeingthe boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In themidst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, andcrawling under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, securedone end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a lasso,caught it round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the nextjerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner wasrun into the wind, and while the hands were clearing away the sternboat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a longliving arc of a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimminglike a dog, throwing his long arms straight out before him, and byturns revealing his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. Ilooked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved.The greenhorn had gone down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from thewater, Queequeg, now took an instant’s glance around him, and seemingto see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutesmore, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the otherdragging a lifeless form. The boat soon picked them up. The poorbumpkin was restored. All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; thecaptain begged his pardon. From that hour I clove to Queequeg like abarnacle; yea, till poor Queequeg took his last long dive.Was there ever such unconsciousness? He did not seem to think that heat all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies. Heonly asked for water—fresh water—something to wipe the brine off; thatdone, he put on dry clothes, lighted his pipe, and leaning against thebulwarks, and mildly eyeing those around him, seemed to be saying tohimself—“It’s a mutual, joint-stock world, in all meridians. Wecannibals must help these Christians.”CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.Nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning; so, after afine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.Nantucket! Take out your map and look at it. See what a real corner ofthe world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonelythan the Eddystone lighthouse. Look at it—a mere hillock, and elbow ofsand; all beach, without a background. There is more sand there thanyou would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper. Somegamesome wights will tell you that they have to plant weeds there, theydon’t grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they haveto send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; thatpieces of wood in Nantucket are carried about like bits of the truecross in Rome; that people there plant toadstools before their houses,to get under the shade in summer time; that one blade of grass makes anoasis, three blades in a day’s walk a prairie; that they wear quicksandshoes, something like Laplander snow-shoes; that they are so shut up,belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and made an utter islandof by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables small clams willsometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea turtles. But theseextravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island wassettled by the red-men. Thus goes the legend. In olden times an eagleswooped down upon the New England coast, and carried off an infantIndian in his talons. With loud lament the parents saw their childborne out of sight over the wide waters. They resolved to follow in thesame direction. Setting out in their canoes, after a perilous passagethey discovered the island, and there they found an empty ivorycasket,—the poor little Indian’s skeleton.What wonder, then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, shouldtake to the sea for a livelihood! They first caught crabs and quohogsin the sand; grown bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel; moreexperienced, they pushed off in boats and captured cod; and at last,launching a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world;put an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in atBehring’s Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans declaredeverlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived theflood; most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalehan, salt-seaMastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, thathis very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless andmalicious assaults!And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing fromtheir ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world likeso many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific,and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let Americaadd Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the Englishoverswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun;two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer’s. For the seais his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but aright of way through it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges;armed ones but floating forts; even pirates and privateers, thoughfollowing the sea as highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships,other fragments of the land like themselves, without seeking to drawtheir living from the bottomless deep itself. The Nantucketer, he aloneresides and riots on the sea; he alone, in Bible language, goes down toit in ships; to and fro ploughing it as his own special plantation.There is his home; there lies his business, which a Noah’s floodwould not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all the millions in China.He lives on the sea, as prairie cocks in the prairie; he hides amongthe waves, he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the Alps. For yearshe knows not the land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smellslike another world, more strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman.With the landless gull, that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked tosleep between billows; so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sightof land, furls his sails, and lays him to his rest, while under hisvery pillow rush herds of walruses and whales.CHAPTER 15. Chowder.It was quite late in the evening when the little Moss came snugly toanchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we could attend to nobusiness that day, at least none but a supper and a bed. The landlordof the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey of theTry Pots, whom he asserted to be the proprietor of one of the best kepthotels in all Nantucket, and moreover he had assured us that CousinHosea, as he called him, was famous for his chowders. In short, heplainly hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot-luckat the Try Pots. But the directions he had given us about keeping ayellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church tothe larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made acorner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the firstman we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his verymuch puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeginsisted that the yellow warehouse—our first point of departure—must beleft on the larboard hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to sayit was on the starboard. However, by dint of beating about a little inthe dark, and now and then knocking up a peaceable inhabitant toinquire the way, we at last came to something which there was nomistaking.Two enormous wooden pots painted black, and suspended by asses’ ears,swung from the cross-trees of an old top-mast, planted in front of anold doorway. The horns of the cross-trees were sawed off on the otherside, so that this old top-mast looked not a little like a gallows.Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at the time, but Icould not help staring at this gallows with a vague misgiving. A sortof crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining horns; yes,two of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me. It’s ominous, thinksI. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port;tombstones staring at me in the whalemen’s chapel; and here a gallows!and a pair of prodigious black pots too! Are these last throwing outoblique hints touching Tophet?I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled womanwith yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of the inn,under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an injuredeye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollenshirt.“Get along with ye,” said she to the man, “or I’ll be combing ye!”“Come on, Queequeg,” said I, “all right. There’s Mrs. Hussey.”And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leavingMrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Uponmaking known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey,postponing further scolding for the present, ushered us into a littleroom, and seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recentlyconcluded repast, turned round to us and said—“Clam or Cod?”“What’s that about Cods, ma’am?” said I, with much politeness.“Clam or Cod?” she repeated.“A clam for supper? a cold clam; is that what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?”says I, “but that’s a rather cold and clammy reception in the wintertime, ain’t it, Mrs. Hussey?”But being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purpleShirt, who was waiting for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothingbut the word “clam,” Mrs. Hussey hurried towards an open door leadingto the kitchen, and bawling out “clam for two,” disappeared.“Queequeg,” said I, “do you think that we can make out a supper for usboth on one clam?”However, a warm savory steam from the kitchen served to belie theapparently cheerless prospect before us. But when that smoking chowdercame in, the mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends!hearken to me. It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely bigger thanhazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut upinto little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifullyseasoned with pepper and salt. Our appetites being sharpened by thefrosty voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favourite fishingfood before him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, wedespatched it with great expedition: when leaning back a moment andbethinking me of Mrs. Hussey’s clam and cod announcement, I thought Iwould try a little experiment. Stepping to the kitchen door, I utteredthe word “cod” with great emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a fewmoments the savoury steam came forth again, but with a differentflavor, and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placed before us.We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the bowl, thinks Ito myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the head? What’sthat stultifying saying about chowder-headed people? “But look,Queequeg, ain’t that a live eel in your bowl? Where’s your harpoon?”Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved itsname; for the pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder forbreakfast, and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till youbegan to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes. The areabefore the house was paved with clam-shells. Mrs. Hussey wore apolished necklace of codfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his accountbooks bound in superior old shark-skin. There was a fishy flavor to themilk, too, which I could not at all account for, till one morninghappening to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen’sboats, I saw Hosea’s brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, andmarching along the sand with each foot in a cod’s decapitated head,looking very slip-shod, I assure ye.Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and directions from Mrs. Husseyconcerning the nearest way to bed; but, as Queequeg was about toprecede me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her arm, and demandedhis harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. “Why not?” said I;“every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon—but why not?” “Becauseit’s dangerous,” says she. “Ever since young Stiggs coming from thatunfort’nt v’y’ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, withonly three barrels of ile, was found dead in my first floor back,with his harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders totake sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg”(for she had learned his name), “I will just take this here iron, andkeep it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrowfor breakfast, men?”“Both,” says I; “and let’s have a couple of smoked herring by way ofvariety.”CHAPTER 16. The Ship.In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and nosmall concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that he had beendiligently consulting Yojo—the name of his black little god—and Yojohad told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon iteveryway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet inharbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say,Yojo earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should restwholly with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in orderto do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself,I, Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as thoughit had turned out by chance; and in that vessel I must immediately shipmyself, for the present irrespective of Queequeg.I have forgotten to mention that, in many things, Queequeg placed greatconfidence in the excellence of Yojo’s judgment and surprising forecastof things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem, as a rathergood sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole, but inall cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.Now, this plan of Queequeg’s, or rather Yojo’s, touching the selectionof our craft; I did not like that plan at all. I had not a littlerelied upon Queequeg’s sagacity to point out the whaler best fitted tocarry us and our fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrancesproduced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to acquiesce; andaccordingly prepared to set about this business with a determinedrushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle thattrifling little affair. Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut upwith Yojo in our little bedroom—for it seemed that it was some sort ofLent or Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer withQueequeg and Yojo that day; how it was I never could find out, for,though I applied myself to it several times, I never could master hisliturgies and XXXIX Articles—leaving Queequeg, then, fasting on histomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming himself at his sacrificial fire ofshavings, I sallied out among the shipping. After much prolongedsauntering and many random inquiries, I learnt that there were threeships up for three-years’ voyages—The Devil-dam, the Tit-bit, and thePequod. Devil-Dam, I do not know the origin of; Tit-bit is obvious;Pequod, you will no doubt remember, was the name of a celebratedtribe of Massachusetts Indians; now extinct as the ancient Medes. Ipeered and pryed about the Devil-dam; from her, hopped over to theTit-bit; and finally, going on board the Pequod, looked around her fora moment, and then decided that this was the very ship for us.You may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught Iknow;—square-toed luggers; mountainous Japanese junks; butter-boxgalliots, and what not; but take my word for it, you never saw such arare old craft as this same rare old Pequod. She was a ship of the oldschool, rather small if anything; with an old-fashioned claw-footedlook about her. Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons andcalms of all four oceans, her old hull’s complexion was darkened like aFrench grenadier’s, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia. Hervenerable bows looked bearded. Her masts—cut somewhere on the coast ofJapan, where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale—her mastsstood stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Herancient decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshippedflag-stone in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled. But to all theseher old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertainingto the wild business that for more than half a century she hadfollowed. Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before hecommanded another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and oneof the principal owners of the Pequod,—this old Peleg, during the termof his chief-mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, andinlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both of material and device,unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake’s carved buckler orbedstead. She was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, hisneck heavy with pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing oftrophies. A cannibal of a craft, tricking herself forth in the chasedbones of her enemies. All round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks weregarnished like one continuous jaw, with the long sharp teeth of thesperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her old hempen thewsand tendons to. Those thews ran not through base blocks of land wood,but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory. Scorning a turnstilewheel at her reverend helm, she sported there a tiller; and that tillerwas in one mass, curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of herhereditary foe. The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest,felt like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutchingits jaw. A noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy! All noble thingsare touched with that.Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one havingauthority, in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, atfirst I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort oftent, or rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast. Itseemed only a temporary erection used in port. It was of a conicalshape, some ten feet high; consisting of the long, huge slabs of limberblack bone taken from the middle and highest part of the jaws of theright-whale. Planted with their broad ends on the deck, a circle ofthese slabs laced together, mutually sloped towards each other, and atthe apex united in a tufted point, where the loose hairy fibres wavedto and fro like the top-knot on some old Pottowottamie Sachem’s head. Atriangular opening faced towards the bows of the ship, so that theinsider commanded a complete view forward.And half concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who byhis aspect seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and theship’s work suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden ofcommand. He was seated on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling allover with curious carving; and the bottom of which was formed of astout interlacing of the same elastic stuff of which the wigwam wasconstructed.There was nothing so very particular, perhaps, about the appearance ofthe elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old seamen,and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style;only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutestwrinkles interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from hiscontinual sailings in many hard gales, and always looking towindward;—for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursedtogether. Such eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.“Is this the Captain of the Pequod?” said I, advancing to the door ofthe tent.“Supposing it be the captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want ofhim?” he demanded.“I was thinking of shipping.”“Thou wast, wast thou? I see thou art no Nantucketer—ever been in astove boat?”“No, Sir, I never have.”“Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say—eh?“Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn. I’ve beenseveral voyages in the merchant service, and I think that—”“Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see thatleg?—I’ll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest ofthe marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I supposenow ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchantships. But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?—itlooks a little suspicious, don’t it, eh?—Hast not been a pirate, hastthou?—Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?—Dost not think ofmurdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?”I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask ofthese half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulatedQuakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and ratherdistrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or theVineyard.“But what takes thee a-whaling? I want to know that before I think ofshipping ye.”“Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see the world.”“Want to see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?”“Who is Captain Ahab, sir?”“Aye, aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship.”“I am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself.”“Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg—that’s who ye are speaking to,young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fittedout for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew. Weare part owners and agents. But as I was going to say, if thou wantestto know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a wayof finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out. Clapeye on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only oneleg.”“What do you mean, sir? Was the other one lost by a whale?”“Lost by a whale! Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewedup, crunched by the monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped aboat!—ah, ah!”I was a little alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched atthe hearty grief in his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as Icould, “What you say is no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I knowthere was any peculiar ferocity in that particular whale, though indeedI might have inferred as much from the simple fact of the accident.”“Look ye now, young man, thy lungs are a sort of soft, d’ye see; thoudost not talk shark a bit. Sure, ye’ve been to sea before now; sureof that?”“Sir,” said I, “I thought I told you that I had been four voyages inthe merchant—”“Hard down out of that! Mind what I said about the marchantservice—don’t aggravate me—I won’t have it. But let us understand eachother. I have given thee a hint about what whaling is; do ye yet feelinclined for it?”“I do, sir.”“Very good. Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a livewhale’s throat, and then jump after it? Answer, quick!”“I am, sir, if it should be positively indispensable to do so; not tobe got rid of, that is; which I don’t take to be the fact.”“Good again. Now then, thou not only wantest to go a-whaling, to findout by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to go in order tosee the world? Was not that what ye said? I thought so. Well then, juststep forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and then backto me and tell me what ye see there.”For a moment I stood a little puzzled by this curious request, notknowing exactly how to take it, whether humorously or in earnest. Butconcentrating all his crow’s feet into one scowl, Captain Peleg startedme on the errand.Going forward and glancing over the weather bow, I perceived that theship swinging to her anchor with the flood-tide, was now obliquelypointing towards the open ocean. The prospect was unlimited, butexceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the slightest variety that Icould see.“Well, what’s the report?” said Peleg when I came back; “what did yesee?”“Not much,” I replied—“nothing but water; considerable horizon though,and there’s a squall coming up, I think.”“Well, what does thou think then of seeing the world? Do ye wish to goround Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can’t ye see the world whereyou stand?”I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and thePequod was as good a ship as any—I thought the best—and all this I nowrepeated to Peleg. Seeing me so determined, he expressed hiswillingness to ship me.“And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off,” he added—“comealong with ye.” And so saying, he led the way below deck into thecabin.Seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon andsurprising figure. It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along withCaptain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the othershares, as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowdof old annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards;each owning about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or anail or two in the ship. People in Nantucket invest their money inwhaling vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved statestocks bringing in good interest.Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers, was aQuaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and tothis day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure thepeculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified bythings altogether alien and heterogeneous. For some of these sameQuakers are the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters. Theyare fighting Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.So that there are instances among them of men, who, named withScripture names—a singularly common fashion on the island—and inchildhood naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and thou of theQuaker idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundlessadventure of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with theseunoutgrown peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, notunworthy a Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman. And whenthese things unite in a man of greatly superior natural force, with aglobular brain and a ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness andseclusion of many long night-watches in the remotest waters, andbeneath constellations never seen here at the north, been led to thinkuntraditionally and independently; receiving all nature’s sweet orsavage impressions fresh from her own virgin voluntary and confidingbreast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from accidentaladvantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language—that man makesone in a whole nation’s census—a mighty pageant creature, formed fornoble tragedies. Nor will it at all detract from him, dramaticallyregarded, if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seemsa half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature. Forall men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness. Besure of this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.But, as yet we have not to do with such an one, but with quite another;and still a man, who, if indeed peculiar, it only results again fromanother phase of the Quaker, modified by individual circumstances.Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do, retired whaleman.But unlike Captain Peleg—who cared not a rush for what are calledserious things, and indeed deemed those self-same serious things theveriest of all trifles—Captain Bildad had not only been originallyeducated according to the strictest sect of Nantucket Quakerism, butall his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many unclad, lovelyisland creatures, round the Horn—all that had not moved this nativeborn Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of hisvest. Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of commonconsistency about worthy Captain Bildad. Though refusing, fromconscientious scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himselfhad illimitably invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a swornfoe to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilledtuns upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in the contemplative eveningof his days, the pious Bildad reconciled these things in thereminiscence, I do not know; but it did not seem to concern him much,and very probably he had long since come to the sage and sensibleconclusion that a man’s religion is one thing, and this practical worldquite another. This world pays dividends. Rising from a littlecabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in abroad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header,chief-mate, and captain, and finally a ship owner; Bildad, as I hintedbefore, had concluded his adventurous career by wholly retiring fromactive life at the goodly age of sixty, and dedicating his remainingdays to the quiet receiving of his well-earned income.Now, Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of being anincorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hardtask-master. They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems acurious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew,upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital,sore exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker,he was certainly rather hard-hearted, to say the least. He never usedto swear, though, at his men, they said; but somehow he got aninordinate quantity of cruel, unmitigated hard work out of them. WhenBildad was a chief-mate, to have his drab-coloured eye intently lookingat you, made you feel completely nervous, till you could clutchsomething—a hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work like mad, atsomething or other, never mind what. Indolence and idleness perishedbefore him. His own person was the exact embodiment of his utilitariancharacter. On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare flesh, nosuperfluous beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it, likethe worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat.Such, then, was the person that I saw seated on the transom when Ifollowed Captain Peleg down into the cabin. The space between the deckswas small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old Bildad, who always sat so,and never leaned, and this to save his coat tails. His broad-brim wasplaced beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed; his drab vesture wasbuttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he seemed absorbed inreading from a ponderous volume.“Bildad,” cried Captain Peleg, “at it again, Bildad, eh? Ye have beenstudying those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to mycertain knowledge. How far ye got, Bildad?”As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up,and seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.“He says he’s our man, Bildad,” said Peleg, “he wants to ship.”“Dost thee?” said Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning round to me.“I dost,” said I unconsciously, he was so intense a Quaker.“What do ye think of him, Bildad?” said Peleg.“He’ll do,” said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away athis book in a mumbling tone quite audible.I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially as Peleg,his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer. But I saidnothing, only looking round me sharply. Peleg now threw open a chest,and drawing forth the ship’s articles, placed pen and ink before him,and seated himself at a little table. I began to think it was high timeto settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage forthe voyage. I was already aware that in the whaling business they paidno wages; but all hands, including the captain, received certain sharesof the profits called lays, and that these lays were proportioned tothe degree of importance pertaining to the respective duties of theship’s company. I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, myown lay would not be very large; but considering that I was used to thesea, could steer a ship, splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubtthat from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275thlay—that is, the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage,whatever that might eventually amount to. And though the 275th lay waswhat they call a rather long lay, yet it was better than nothing; andif we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing Iwould wear out on it, not to speak of my three years’ beef and board,for which I would not have to pay one stiver.It might be thought that this was a poor way to accumulate a princelyfortune—and so it was, a very poor way indeed. But I am one of thosethat never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if theworld is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at thisgrim sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I thought that the275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not have beensurprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of abroad-shouldered make.But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little distrustful aboutreceiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore, I had heardsomething of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony Bildad;how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod, thereforethe other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly thewhole management of the ship’s affairs to these two. And I did not knowbut what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say aboutshipping hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod,quite at home there in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at hisown fireside. Now while Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with hisjack-knife, old Bildad, to my no small surprise, considering that hewas such an interested party in these proceedings; Bildad never heededus, but went on mumbling to himself out of his book, “Lay not up foryourselves treasures upon earth, where moth—”“Well, Captain Bildad,” interrupted Peleg, “what d’ye say, what layshall we give this young man?”“Thou knowest best,” was the sepulchral reply, “the seven hundred andseventy-seventh wouldn’t be too much, would it?—‘where moth and rust docorrupt, but lay—’”Lay, indeed, thought I, and such a lay! the seven hundred andseventy-seventh! Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I, for one,shall not lay up many lays here below, where moth and rust docorrupt. It was an exceedingly long lay that, indeed; and though fromthe magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yetthe slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred andseventy-seven is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make ateenth of it, you will then see, I say, that the seven hundred andseventy-seventh part of a farthing is a good deal less than sevenhundred and seventy-seven gold doubloons; and so I thought at the time.“Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,” cried Peleg, “thou dost not want toswindle this young man! he must have more than that.”“Seven hundred and seventy-seventh,” again said Bildad, without liftinghis eyes; and then went on mumbling—“for where your treasure is, therewill your heart be also.”“I am going to put him down for the three hundredth,” said Peleg, “doye hear that, Bildad! The three hundredth lay, I say.”Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly towards him said,“Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must consider theduty thou owest to the other owners of this ship—widows and orphans,many of them—and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of thisyoung man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and thoseorphans. The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.”“Thou Bildad!” roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about thecabin. “Blast ye, Captain Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in thesematters, I would afore now had a conscience to lug about that would beheavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round CapeHorn.”“Captain Peleg,” said Bildad steadily, “thy conscience may be drawingten inches of water, or ten fathoms, I can’t tell; but as thou artstill an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thyconscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee founderingdown to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.”“Fiery pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, yeinsult me. It’s an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature thathe’s bound to hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again to me,and start my soul-bolts, but I’ll—I’ll—yes, I’ll swallow a live goatwith all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin, ye canting,drab-coloured son of a wooden gun—a straight wake with ye!”As he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but with amarvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him.Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal andresponsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up allidea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarilycommanded, I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who,I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakenedwrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on thetransom very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention ofwithdrawing. He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways. Asfor Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no moreleft in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched alittle as if still nervously agitated. “Whew!” he whistled at last—“thesquall’s gone off to leeward, I think. Bildad, thou used to be good atsharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye. My jack-knife here needsthe grindstone. That’s he; thank ye, Bildad. Now then, my young man,Ishmael’s thy name, didn’t ye say? Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,for the three hundredth lay.”“Captain Peleg,” said I, “I have a friend with me who wants to shiptoo—shall I bring him down to-morrow?”“To be sure,” said Peleg. “Fetch him along, and we’ll look at him.”“What lay does he want?” groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book inwhich he had again been burying himself.“Oh! never thee mind about that, Bildad,” said Peleg. “Has he everwhaled it any?” turning to me.“Killed more whales than I can count, Captain Peleg.”“Well, bring him along then.”And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that Ihad done a good morning’s work, and that the Pequod was the identicalship that Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.But I had not proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that theCaptain with whom I was to sail yet remained unseen by me; though,indeed, in many cases, a whale-ship will be completely fitted out, andreceive all her crew on board, ere the captain makes himself visible byarriving to take command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged,and the shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief, that if thecaptain have a family, or any absorbing concernment of that sort, hedoes not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but leaves her tothe owners till all is ready for sea. However, it is always as well tohave a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into hishands. Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where CaptainAhab was to be found.“And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab? It’s all right enough; thouart shipped.”“Yes, but I should like to see him.”“But I don’t think thou wilt be able to at present. I don’t knowexactly what’s the matter with him; but he keeps close inside thehouse; a sort of sick, and yet he don’t look so. In fact, he ain’tsick; but no, he isn’t well either. Any how, young man, he won’t alwayssee me, so I don’t suppose he will thee. He’s a queer man, CaptainAhab—so some think—but a good one. Oh, thou’lt like him well enough; nofear, no fear. He’s a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab;doesn’t speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may well listen.Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab’s above the common; Ahab’s been incolleges, as well as ’mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wondersthan the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes thanwhales. His lance! aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all ourisle! Oh! he ain’t Captain Bildad; no, and he ain’t Captain Peleg;he’s Ahab, boy; and Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!”“And a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, didthey not lick his blood?”“Come hither to me—hither, hither,” said Peleg, with a significance inhis eye that almost startled me. “Look ye, lad; never say that on boardthe Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself.’Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who diedwhen he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the old squaw Tistig, atGayhead, said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And,perhaps, other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to warnthee. It’s a lie. I know Captain Ahab well; I’ve sailed with him asmate years ago; I know what he is—a good man—not a pious, good man,like Bildad, but a swearing good man—something like me—only there’s agood deal more of him. Aye, aye, I know that he was never very jolly;and I know that on the passage home, he was a little out of his mindfor a spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stumpthat brought that about, as any one might see. I know, too, that eversince he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he’s been akind of moody—desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will allpass off. And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, youngman, it’s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing badone. So good-bye to thee—and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happensto have a wicked name. Besides, my boy, he has a wife—not three voyageswedded—a sweet, resigned girl. Think of that; by that sweet girl thatold man has a child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harmin Ahab? No, no, my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has hishumanities!”As I walked away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had beenincidentally revealed to me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certainwild vagueness of painfulness concerning him. And somehow, at the time,I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don’t know what,unless it was the cruel loss of his leg. And yet I also felt a strangeawe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at all describe, wasnot exactly awe; I do not know what it was. But I felt it; and it didnot disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at what seemedlike mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then.However, my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, sothat for the present dark Ahab slipped my mind.CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan.As Queequeg’s Ramadan, or Fasting and Humiliation, was to continue allday, I did not choose to disturb him till towards night-fall; for Icherish the greatest respect towards everybody’s religious obligations,never mind how comical, and could not find it in my heart to undervalueeven a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or those othercreatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree offootmanism quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before thetorso of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of theinordinate possessions yet owned and rented in his name.I say, we good Presbyterian Christians should be charitable in thesethings, and not fancy ourselves so vastly superior to other mortals,pagans and what not, because of their half-crazy conceits on thesesubjects. There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining the mostabsurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan;—but what of that? Queequegthought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be content;and there let him rest. All our arguing with him would not avail; lethim be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all—Presbyterians and Pagansalike—for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, andsadly need mending.Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances andrituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door;but no answer. I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.“Queequeg,” said I softly through the key-hole:—all silent. “I say,Queequeg! why don’t you speak? It’s I—Ishmael.” But all remained stillas before. I began to grow alarmed. I had allowed him such abundanttime; I thought he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked throughthe key-hole; but the door opening into an odd corner of the room, thekey-hole prospect was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only seepart of the foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothingmore. I was surprised to behold resting against the wall the woodenshaft of Queequeg’s harpoon, which the landlady the evening previoushad taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber. That’s strange,thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and heseldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be insidehere, and no possible mistake.“Queequeg!—Queequeg!”—all still. Something must have happened.Apoplexy! I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted.Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first personI met—the chamber-maid. “La! la!” she cried, “I thought something mustbe the matter. I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door waslocked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it’s been just so silent eversince. But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked yourbaggage in for safe keeping. La! la, ma’am!—Mistress! murder! Mrs.Hussey! apoplexy!”—and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, Ifollowing.Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and avinegar-cruet in the other, having just broken away from the occupationof attending to the castors, and scolding her little black boymeantime.“Wood-house!” cried I, “which way to it? Run for God’s sake, and fetchsomething to pry open the door—the axe!—the axe! he’s had a stroke;depend upon it!”—and so saying I was unmethodically rushing up stairsagain empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey interposed the mustard-pot andvinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her countenance.“What’s the matter with you, young man?”“Get the axe! For God’s sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pryit open!”“Look here,” said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet,so as to have one hand free; “look here; are you talking about pryingopen any of my doors?”—and with that she seized my arm. “What’s thematter with you? What’s the matter with you, shipmate?”In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understandthe whole case. Unconsciously clapping the vinegar-cruet to one side ofher nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed—“No! I haven’tseen it since I put it there.” Running to a little closet under thelanding of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me thatQueequeg’s harpoon was missing. “He’s killed himself,” she cried. “It’sunfort’nate Stiggs done over again—there goes another counterpane—Godpity his poor mother!—it will be the ruin of my house. Has the poor lada sister? Where’s that girl?—there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter,and tell him to paint me a sign, with—“no suicides permitted here, andno smoking in the parlor;”—might as well kill both birds at once. Kill?The Lord be merciful to his ghost! What’s that noise there? You, youngman, avast there!”And running up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to forceopen the door.“I don’t allow it; I won’t have my premises spoiled. Go for thelocksmith, there’s one about a mile from here. But avast!” putting herhand in her side-pocket, “here’s a key that’ll fit, I guess; let’ssee.” And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas! Queequeg’ssupplemental bolt remained unwithdrawn within.“Have to burst it open,” said I, and was running down the entry alittle, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowingI should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with asudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.With a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the knob slammingagainst the wall, sent the plaster to the ceiling; and there, goodheavens! there sat Queequeg, altogether cool and self-collected; rightin the middle of the room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo ontop of his head. He looked neither one way nor the other way, but satlike a carved image with scarce a sign of active life.“Queequeg,” said I, going up to him, “Queequeg, what’s the matter withyou?”“He hain’t been a sittin’ so all day, has he?” said the landlady.But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost feltlike pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almostintolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained;especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for upwards ofeight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.“Mrs. Hussey,” said I, “he’s alive at all events; so leave us, if youplease, and I will see to this strange affair myself.”Closing the door upon the landlady, I endeavored to prevail uponQueequeg to take a chair; but in vain. There he sat; and all he coulddo—for all my polite arts and blandishments—he would not move a peg,nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor notice my presence inthe slightest way.I wonder, thought I, if this can possibly be a part of his Ramadan; dothey fast on their hams that way in his native island. It must be so;yes, it’s part of his creed, I suppose; well, then, let him rest; he’llget up sooner or later, no doubt. It can’t last for ever, thank God,and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I don’t believe it’s verypunctual then.I went down to supper. After sitting a long time listening to the longstories of some sailors who had just come from a plum-pudding voyage,as they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in a schooner orbrig, confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean only);after listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o’clock, Iwent up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequegmust certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination. But no; therehe was just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch. I beganto grow vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane tobe sitting there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room,holding a piece of wood on his head.“For heaven’s sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself; get up andhave some supper. You’ll starve; you’ll kill yourself, Queequeg.” Butnot a word did he reply.Despairing of him, therefore, I determined to go to bed and to sleep;and no doubt, before a great while, he would follow me. But previous toturning in, I took my heavy bearskin jacket, and threw it over him, asit promised to be a very cold night; and he had nothing but hisordinary round jacket on. For some time, do all I would, I could notget into the faintest doze. I had blown out the candle; and the merethought of Queequeg—not four feet off—sitting there in that uneasyposition, stark alone in the cold and dark; this made me reallywretched. Think of it; sleeping all night in the same room with a wideawake pagan on his hams in this dreary, unaccountable Ramadan!But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing more till break ofday; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted Queequeg, as if hehad been screwed down to the floor. But as soon as the first glimpse ofsun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating joints, butwith a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed hisforehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.Now, as I before hinted, I have no objection to any person’s religion,be it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult anyother person, because that other person don’t believe it also. But whena man’s religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive tormentto him; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn tolodge in; then I think it high time to take that individual aside andargue the point with him.And just so I now did with Queequeg. “Queequeg,” said I, “get into bednow, and lie and listen to me.” I then went on, beginning with the riseand progress of the primitive religions, and coming down to the variousreligions of the present time, during which time I labored to showQueequeg that all these Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattingsin cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health;useless for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygieneand common sense. I told him, too, that he being in other things suchan extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badlypained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculousRamadan of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in;hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast mustnecessarily be half-starved. This is the reason why most dyspepticreligionists cherish such melancholy notions about their hereafters. Inone word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea firstborn on an undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuatedthrough the hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled withdyspepsia; expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take itin. He said no; only upon one memorable occasion. It was after a greatfeast given by his father the king, on the gaining of a great battlewherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o’clock in theafternoon, and all cooked and eaten that very evening.“No more, Queequeg,” said I, shuddering; “that will do;” for I knew theinferences without his further hinting them. I had seen a sailor whohad visited that very island, and he told me that it was the custom,when a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain inthe yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they wereplaced in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau,with breadfruit and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths,were sent round with the victor’s compliments to all his friends, justas though these presents were so many Christmas turkeys.After all, I do not think that my remarks about religion made muchimpression upon Queequeg. Because, in the first place, he somehowseemed dull of hearing on that important subject, unless consideredfrom his own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not morethan one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and,finally, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the truereligion than I did. He looked at me with a sort of condescendingconcern and compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that sucha sensible young man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical paganpiety.At last we rose and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously heartybreakfast of chowders of all sorts, so that the landlady should notmake much profit by reason of his Ramadan, we sallied out to board thePequod, sauntering along, and picking our teeth with halibut bones.CHAPTER 18. His Mark.As we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship, Queequegcarrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff voice loudly hailed usfrom his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal,and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board thatcraft, unless they previously produced their papers.“What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?” said I, now jumping on thebulwarks, and leaving my comrade standing on the wharf.“I mean,” he replied, “he must show his papers.”“Yes,” said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head frombehind Peleg’s, out of the wigwam. “He must show that he’s converted.Son of darkness,” he added, turning to Queequeg, “art thou at presentin communion with any Christian church?”“Why,” said I, “he’s a member of the first Congregational Church.” Herebe it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships atlast come to be converted into the churches.“First Congregational Church,” cried Bildad, “what! that worships inDeacon Deuteronomy Coleman’s meeting-house?” and so saying, taking outhis spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandanahandkerchief, and putting them on very carefully, came out of thewigwam, and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look atQueequeg.“How long hath he been a member?” he then said, turning to me; “notvery long, I rather guess, young man.”“No,” said Peleg, “and he hasn’t been baptized right either, or itwould have washed some of that devil’s blue off his face.”“Do tell, now,” cried Bildad, “is this Philistine a regular member ofDeacon Deuteronomy’s meeting? I never saw him going there, and I passit every Lord’s day.”“I don’t know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting,” saidI; “all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the FirstCongregational Church. He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.”“Young man,” said Bildad sternly, “thou art skylarking with me—explainthyself, thou young Hittite. What church dost thee mean? answer me.”Finding myself thus hard pushed, I replied. “I mean, sir, the sameancient Catholic Church to which you and I, and Captain Peleg there,and Queequeg here, and all of us, and every mother’s son and soul of usbelong; the great and everlasting First Congregation of this wholeworshipping world; we all belong to that; only some of us cherish somequeer crotchets no ways touching the grand belief; in that we alljoin hands.”“Splice, thou mean’st splice hands,” cried Peleg, drawing nearer.“Young man, you’d better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-masthand; I never heard a better sermon. Deacon Deuteronomy—why FatherMapple himself couldn’t beat it, and he’s reckoned something. Comeaboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers. I say, tell Quohogthere—what’s that you call him? tell Quohog to step along. By the greatanchor, what a harpoon he’s got there! looks like good stuff that; andhe handles it about right. I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, didyou ever stand in the head of a whale-boat? did you ever strike afish?”Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped uponthe bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boatshanging to the side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising hisharpoon, cried out in some such way as this:—“Cap’ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere? You see him? well,spose him one whale eye, well, den!” and taking sharp aim at it, hedarted the iron right over old Bildad’s broad brim, clean across theship’s decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.“Now,” said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, “spos-ee him whale-eeye; why, dad whale dead.”“Quick, Bildad,” said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the closevicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabingangway. “Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship’s papers. We musthave Hedgehog there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye,Quohog, we’ll give ye the ninetieth lay, and that’s more than ever wasgiven a harpooneer yet out of Nantucket.”So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg was soonenrolled among the same ship’s company to which I myself belonged.When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready forsigning, he turned to me and said, “I guess, Quohog there don’t knowhow to write, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy nameor make thy mark?”But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before takenpart in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking theoffered pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exactcounterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; sothat through Captain Peleg’s obstinate mistake touching hisappellative, it stood something like this:—Quohog. his X mark.Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg,and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of hisbroad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting oneentitled “The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose,” placed it inQueequeg’s hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, “Son of darkness, I must domy duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned forthe souls of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways,which I sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belialbondsman. Spurn the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from thewrath to come; mind thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steerclear of the fiery pit!”Something of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad’s language,heterogeneously mixed with Scriptural and domestic phrases.“Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now spoiling our harpooneer,”cried Peleg. “Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers—it takes theshark out of ’em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint prettysharkish. There was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header outof all Nantucket and the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and nevercame to good. He got so frightened about his plaguy soul, that heshrinked and sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in casehe got stove and went to Davy Jones.”“Peleg! Peleg!” said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, “thou thyself,as I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, whatit is to have the fear of death; how, then, can’st thou prate in thisungodly guise. Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg. Tell me, when thissame Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon onJapan, that same voyage when thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did’stthou not think of Death and the Judgment then?”“Hear him, hear him now,” cried Peleg, marching across the cabin, andthrusting his hands far down into his pockets,—“hear him, all of ye.Think of that! When every moment we thought the ship would sink! Deathand the Judgment then? What? With all three masts making such aneverlasting thundering against the side; and every sea breaking overus, fore and aft. Think of Death and the Judgment then? No! no time tothink about Death then. Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinkingof; and how to save all hands—how to rig jury-masts—how to get into thenearest port; that was what I was thinking of.”Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck, wherewe followed him. There he stood, very quietly overlooking somesailmakers who were mending a top-sail in the waist. Now and then hestooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, whichotherwise might have been wasted.CHAPTER 19. The Prophet.“Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?”Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away fromthe water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when theabove words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us,levelled his massive forefinger at the vessel in question. He was butshabbily apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of ablack handkerchief investing his neck. A confluent small-pox had in alldirections flowed over his face, and left it like the complicatedribbed bed of a torrent, when the rushing waters have been dried up.“Have ye shipped in her?” he repeated.“You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose,” said I, trying to gain a littlemore time for an uninterrupted look at him.“Aye, the Pequod—that ship there,” he said, drawing back his whole arm,and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the fixedbayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object.“Yes,” said I, “we have just signed the articles.”“Anything down there about your souls?”“About what?”“Oh, perhaps you hav’n’t got any,” he said quickly. “No matter though,I know many chaps that hav’n’t got any,—good luck to ’em; and they areall the better off for it. A soul’s a sort of a fifth wheel to awagon.”“What are you jabbering about, shipmate?” said I.“He’s got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of thatsort in other chaps,” abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervousemphasis upon the word he.“Queequeg,” said I, “let’s go; this fellow has broken loose fromsomewhere; he’s talking about something and somebody we don’t know.”“Stop!” cried the stranger. “Ye said true—ye hav’n’t seen Old Thunderyet, have ye?”“Who’s Old Thunder?” said I, again riveted with the insane earnestnessof his manner.“Captain Ahab.”“What! the captain of our ship, the Pequod?”“Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name. Yehav’n’t seen him yet, have ye?”“No, we hav’n’t. He’s sick they say, but is getting better, and will beall right again before long.”“All right again before long!” laughed the stranger, with a solemnlyderisive sort of laugh. “Look ye; when Captain Ahab is all right, thenthis left arm of mine will be all right; not before.”“What do you know about him?”“What did they tell you about him? Say that!”“They didn’t tell much of anything about him; only I’ve heard that he’sa good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew.”“That’s true, that’s true—yes, both true enough. But you must jump whenhe gives an order. Step and growl; growl and go—that’s the word withCaptain Ahab. But nothing about that thing that happened to him offCape Horn, long ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights;nothing about that deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altarin Santa?—heard nothing about that, eh? Nothing about the silvercalabash he spat into? And nothing about his losing his leg lastvoyage, according to the prophecy. Didn’t ye hear a word about themmatters and something more, eh? No, I don’t think ye did; how could ye?Who knows it? Not all Nantucket, I guess. But hows’ever, mayhap, ye’veheard tell about the leg, and how he lost it; aye, ye have heard ofthat, I dare say. Oh yes, that every one knows a’most—I mean theyknow he’s only one leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off.”“My friend,” said I, “what all this gibberish of yours is about, Idon’t know, and I don’t much care; for it seems to me that you must bea little damaged in the head. But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab,of that ship there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know allabout the loss of his leg.”“All about it, eh—sure you do?—all?”“Pretty sure.”With finger pointed and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-likestranger stood a moment, as if in a troubled reverie; then starting alittle, turned and said:—“Ye’ve shipped, have ye? Names down on thepapers? Well, well, what’s signed, is signed; and what’s to be, willbe; and then again, perhaps it won’t be, after all. Anyhow, it’s allfixed and arranged a’ready; and some sailors or other must go with him,I suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity ’em! Morning to ye,shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I’m sorry I stoppedye.”“Look here, friend,” said I, “if you have anything important to tellus, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle us, you aremistaken in your game; that’s all I have to say.”“And it’s said very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way;you are just the man for him—the likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates,morning! Oh! when ye get there, tell ’em I’ve concluded not to make oneof ’em.”“Ah, my dear fellow, you can’t fool us that way—you can’t fool us. Itis the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had agreat secret in him.”“Morning to ye, shipmates, morning.”“Morning it is,” said I. “Come along, Queequeg, let’s leave this crazyman. But stop, tell me your name, will you?”“Elijah.”Elijah! thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after eachother’s fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he wasnothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear. But we had not goneperhaps above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, andlooking back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us,though at a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that Isaid nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with mycomrade, anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same cornerthat we did. He did; and then it seemed to me that he was dogging us,but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. Thiscircumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing,shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wondermentsand half-apprehensions, and all connected with the Pequod; and CaptainAhab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn fit; and the silvercalabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the shipthe day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig; and thevoyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowythings.I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was reallydogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg,and on that side of it retraced our steps. But Elijah passed on,without seeming to notice us. This relieved me; and once more, andfinally as it seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.CHAPTER 20. All Astir.A day or two passed, and there was great activity aboard the Pequod.Not only were the old sails being mended, but new sails were coming onboard, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging; in short, everythingbetokened that the ship’s preparations were hurrying to a close.Captain Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwamkeeping a sharp look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasingand providing at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and onthe rigging were working till long after night-fall.On the day following Queequeg’s signing the articles, word was given atall the inns where the ship’s company were stopping, that their chestsmust be on board before night, for there was no telling how soon thevessel might be sailing. So Queequeg and I got down our traps,resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last. But it seems theyalways give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not sailfor several days. But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, andthere is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequodwas fully equipped.Every one knows what a multitude of things—beds, sauce-pans, knives andforks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, areindispensable to the business of housekeeping. Just so with whaling,which necessitates a three-years’ housekeeping upon the wide ocean, farfrom all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers. Andthough this also holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any meansto the same extent as with whalemen. For besides the great length ofthe whaling voyage, the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecutionof the fishery, and the impossibility of replacing them at the remoteharbors usually frequented, it must be remembered, that of all ships,whaling vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds, andespecially to the destruction and loss of the very things upon whichthe success of the voyage most depends. Hence, the spare boats, sparespars, and spare lines and harpoons, and spare everythings, almost, buta spare Captain and duplicate ship.At the period of our arrival at the Island, the heaviest storage of thePequod had been almost completed; comprising her beef, bread, water,fuel, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some timethere was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds andends of things, both large and small.Chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was CaptainBildad’s sister, a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigablespirit, but withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if shecould help it, nothing should be found wanting in the Pequod, afteronce fairly getting to sea. At one time she would come on board with ajar of pickles for the steward’s pantry; another time with a bunch ofquills for the chief mate’s desk, where he kept his log; a third timewith a roll of flannel for the small of some one’s rheumatic back.Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity—AuntCharity, as everybody called her. And like a sister of charity did thischaritable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither, ready to turnher hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety, comfort,and consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brotherBildad was concerned, and in which she herself owned a score or two ofwell-saved dollars.But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming onboard, as she did the last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, anda still longer whaling lance in the other. Nor was Bildad himself norCaptain Peleg at all backward. As for Bildad, he carried about with hima long list of the articles needed, and at every fresh arrival, downwent his mark opposite that article upon the paper. Every once in awhile Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring at the mendown the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head, andthen concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.During these days of preparation, Queequeg and I often visited thecraft, and as often I asked about Captain Ahab, and how he was, andwhen he was going to come on board his ship. To these questions theywould answer, that he was getting better and better, and was expectedaboard every day; meantime, the two captains, Peleg and Bildad, couldattend to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage. If Ihad been downright honest with myself, I would have seen very plainlyin my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to solong a voyage, without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be theabsolute dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the opensea. But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if hebe already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover uphis suspicions even from himself. And much this way it was with me. Isaid nothing, and tried to think nothing.At last it was given out that some time next day the ship wouldcertainly sail. So next morning, Queequeg and I took a very earlystart.CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard.It was nearly six o’clock, but only grey imperfect misty dawn, when wedrew nigh the wharf.“There are some sailors running ahead there, if I see right,” said I toQueequeg, “it can’t be shadows; she’s off by sunrise, I guess; comeon!”“Avast!” cried a voice, whose owner at the same time coming closebehind us, laid a hand upon both our shoulders, and then insinuatinghimself between us, stood stooping forward a little, in the uncertaintwilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me. It was Elijah.“Going aboard?”“Hands off, will you,” said I.“Lookee here,” said Queequeg, shaking himself, “go ’way!”“Ain’t going aboard, then?”“Yes, we are,” said I, “but what business is that of yours? Do youknow, Mr. Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?”“No, no, no; I wasn’t aware of that,” said Elijah, slowly andwonderingly looking from me to Queequeg, with the most unaccountableglances.“Elijah,” said I, “you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing. Weare going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to bedetained.”“Ye be, be ye? Coming back afore breakfast?”“He’s cracked, Queequeg,” said I, “come on.”“Holloa!” cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a fewpaces.“Never mind him,” said I, “Queequeg, come on.”But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on myshoulder, said—“Did ye see anything looking like men going towards thatship a while ago?”Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, “Yes,I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.”“Very dim, very dim,” said Elijah. “Morning to ye.”Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; andtouching my shoulder again, said, “See if you can find ’em now, willye?“Find who?”“Morning to ye! morning to ye!” he rejoined, again moving off. “Oh! Iwas going to warn ye against—but never mind, never mind—it’s all one,all in the family too;—sharp frost this morning, ain’t it? Good-bye toye. Shan’t see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it’s before theGrand Jury.” And with these cracked words he finally departed, leavingme, for the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence.At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profoundquiet, not a soul moving. The cabin entrance was locked within; thehatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging. Going forwardto the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open. Seeing alight, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in atattered pea-jacket. He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, hisface downwards and inclosed in his folded arms. The profoundest slumberslept upon him.“Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?” said I,looking dubiously at the sleeper. But it seemed that, when on thewharf, Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence Iwould have thought myself to have been optically deceived in thatmatter, were it not for Elijah’s otherwise inexplicable question. But Ibeat the thing down; and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted toQueequeg that perhaps we had best sit up with the body; telling him toestablish himself accordingly. He put his hand upon the sleeper’s rear,as though feeling if it was soft enough; and then, without more ado,sat quietly down there.“Gracious! Queequeg, don’t sit there,” said I.“Oh! perry dood seat,” said Queequeg, “my country way; won’t hurt himface.”“Face!” said I, “call that his face? very benevolent countenance then;but how hard he breathes, he’s heaving himself; get off, Queequeg, youare heavy, it’s grinding the face of the poor. Get off, Queequeg! Look,he’ll twitch you off soon. I wonder he don’t wake.”Queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper, andlighted his tomahawk pipe. I sat at the feet. We kept the pipe passingover the sleeper, from one to the other. Meanwhile, upon questioninghim in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to understand that, in hisland, owing to the absence of settees and sofas of all sorts, the king,chiefs, and great people generally, were in the custom of fatteningsome of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a housecomfortably in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazyfellows, and lay them round in the piers and alcoves. Besides, it wasvery convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairswhich are convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chiefcalling his attendant, and desiring him to make a settee of himselfunder a spreading tree, perhaps in some damp marshy place.While narrating these things, every time Queequeg received the tomahawkfrom me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the sleeper’s head.“What’s that for, Queequeg?”“Perry easy, kill-e; oh! perry easy!”He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothedhis soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. Thestrong vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began totell upon him. He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemedtroubled in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up andrubbed his eyes.“Holloa!” he breathed at last, “who be ye smokers?”“Shipped men,” answered I, “when does she sail?”“Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captaincame aboard last night.”“What Captain?—Ahab?”“Who but him indeed?”I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when weheard a noise on deck.“Holloa! Starbuck’s astir,” said the rigger. “He’s a lively chief mate,that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to.” And sosaying he went on deck, and we followed.It was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in twos andthrees; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were activelyengaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing variouslast things on board. Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisiblyenshrined within his cabin.CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.At length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship’sriggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, andafter the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, withher last gift—a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, herbrother-in-law, and a spare Bible for the steward—after all this, thetwo Captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning tothe chief mate, Peleg said:“Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right? Captain Ahab isall ready—just spoke to him—nothing more to be got from shore, eh?Well, call all hands, then. Muster ’em aft here—blast ’em!”“No need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg,” saidBildad, “but away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.”How now! Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage, CaptainPeleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on thequarter-deck, just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea, aswell as to all appearances in port. And, as for Captain Ahab, no signof him was yet to be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin. Butthen, the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary ingetting the ship under weigh, and steering her well out to sea. Indeed,as that was not at all his proper business, but the pilot’s; and as hewas not yet completely recovered—so they said—therefore, Captain Ahabstayed below. And all this seemed natural enough; especially as in themerchant service many captains never show themselves on deck for aconsiderable time after heaving up the anchor, but remain over thecabin table, having a farewell merry-making with their shore friends,before they quit the ship for good with the pilot.But there was not much chance to think over the matter, for CaptainPeleg was now all alive. He seemed to do most of the talking andcommanding, and not Bildad.“Aft here, ye sons of bachelors,” he cried, as the sailors lingered atthe main-mast. “Mr. Starbuck, drive ’em aft.”“Strike the tent there!”—was the next order. As I hinted before, thiswhalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board thePequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well knownto be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.“Man the capstan! Blood and thunder!—jump!”—was the next command, andthe crew sprang for the handspikes.Now in getting under weigh, the station generally occupied by the pilotis the forward part of the ship. And here Bildad, who, with Peleg, beit known, in addition to his other officers, was one of the licensedpilots of the port—he being suspected to have got himself made a pilotin order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he wasconcerned in, for he never piloted any other craft—Bildad, I say, mightnow be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for theapproaching anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal staveof psalmody, to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth somesort of a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty goodwill. Nevertheless, not three days previous, Bildad had told them thatno profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly ingetting under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choicecopy of Watts in each seaman’s berth.Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg rippedand swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought hewould sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily Ipaused on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking ofthe perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil fora pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that inpious Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundredand seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear,and turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg inthe act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was myfirst kick.“Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?” he roared.“Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone! Why don’t yespring, I say, all of ye—spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with the redwhiskers; spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants. Spring, Isay, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!” And so saying, he movedalong the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, whileimperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. Thinks I,Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided. Itwas a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged intonight, we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whosefreezing spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor. The long rows ofteeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight; and like the whiteivory tusks of some huge elephant, vast curving icicles depended fromthe bows.Lank Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and ever and anon, asthe old craft deep dived into the green seas, and sent the shiveringfrost all over her, and the winds howled, and the cordage rang, hissteady notes were heard,—“Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in livinggreen. So to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.”Never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than then. Theywere full of hope and fruition. Spite of this frigid winter night inthe boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket, therewas yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store; andmeads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by thespring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.At last we gained such an offing, that the two pilots were needed nolonger. The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began rangingalongside.It was curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affectedat this juncture, especially Captain Bildad. For loath to depart, yet;very loath to leave, for good, a ship bound on so long and perilous avoyage—beyond both stormy Capes; a ship in which some thousands of hishard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in which an old shipmatesailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once more starting toencounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say good-bye toa thing so every way brimful of every interest to him,—poor old Bildadlingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides; ran down into thecabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, andlooked to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, onlybounded by the far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards theland; looked aloft; looked right and left; looked everywhere andnowhere; and at last, mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin,convulsively grasped stout Peleg by the hand, and holding up a lantern,for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say,“Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can.”As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for allhis philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lanterncame too near. And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck—nowa word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look abouthim,—“Captain Bildad—come, old shipmate, we must go. Back the main-yardthere! Boat ahoy! Stand by to come close alongside, now! Careful,careful!—come, Bildad, boy—say your last. Luck to ye, Starbuck—luck toye, Mr. Stubb—luck to ye, Mr. Flask—good-bye and good luck to yeall—and this day three years I’ll have a hot supper smoking for ye inold Nantucket. Hurrah and away!”“God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men,” murmured oldBildad, almost incoherently. “I hope ye’ll have fine weather now, sothat Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye—a pleasant sun is all heneeds, and ye’ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go. Becareful in the hunt, ye mates. Don’t stave the boats needlessly, yeharpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent.within the year. Don’t forget your prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, mindthat cooper don’t waste the spare staves. Oh! the sail-needles are inthe green locker! Don’t whale it too much a’ Lord’s days, men; butdon’t miss a fair chance either, that’s rejecting Heaven’s good gifts.Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky, Ithought. If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication.Good-bye, good-bye! Don’t keep that cheese too long down in the hold,Mr. Starbuck; it’ll spoil. Be careful with the butter—twenty cents thepound it was, and mind ye, if—”“Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering,—away!” and with that,Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the boat.Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; ascreaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gavethree heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the loneAtlantic.CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore.Some chapters back, one Bulkington was spoken of, a tall, newlandedmariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.When on that shivering winter’s night, the Pequod thrust her vindictivebows into the cold malicious waves, who should I see standing at herhelm but Bulkington! I looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness uponthe man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years’ dangerousvoyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still anothertempestuous term. The land seemed scorching to his feet. Wonderfullestthings are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs;this six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington. Let me onlysay that it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, thatmiserably drives along the leeward land. The port would fain givesuccor; the port is pitiful; in the port is safety, comfort,hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends, all that’s kind to ourmortalities. But in that gale, the port, the land, is that ship’sdirest jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of land,though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through andthrough. With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing,fights ’gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeksall the lashed sea’s landlessness again; for refuge’s sake forlornlyrushing into peril; her only friend her bitterest foe!Know ye now, Bulkington? Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortallyintolerable truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but the intrepideffort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea; while thewildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on thetreacherous, slavish shore?But as in landlessness alone resides highest truth, shoreless,indefinite as God—so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite,than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety! Forworm-like, then, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of theterrible! is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart, OBulkington! Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thyocean-perishing—straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling;and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded amonglandsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore, Iam all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice herebydone to us hunters of whales.In the first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establishthe fact, that among people at large, the business of whaling is notaccounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions. If astranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society,it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, werehe presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulationof the naval officers he should append the initials S.W.F. (Sperm WhaleFishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemedpre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.Doubtless one leading reason why the world declines honoring uswhalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our vocation amounts to abutchering sort of business; and that when actively engaged therein, weare surrounded by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that istrue. But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge have beenall Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor. Andas for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, yeshall soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generallyunknown, and which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the spermwhale-ship at least among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth. Buteven granting the charge in question to be true; what disorderedslippery decks of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakablecarrion of those battle-fields from which so many soldiers return todrink in all ladies’ plaudits? And if the idea of peril so muchenhances the popular conceit of the soldier’s profession; let me assureye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to a battery, wouldquickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale’s vast tail,fanning into eddies the air over his head. For what are thecomprehensible terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors andwonders of God!But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does itunwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-aboundingadoration! for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burnround the globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!But look at this matter in other lights; weigh it in all sorts ofscales; see what we whalemen are, and have been.Why did the Dutch in De Witt’s time have admirals of their whalingfleets? Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fitout whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town somescore or two of families from our own island of Nantucket? Why didBritain between the years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bountiesupwards of £1,000,000? And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen ofAmerica now outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world;sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteenthousand men; yearly consuming 4,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth,at the time of sailing, $20,000,000! and every year importing into ourharbors a well reaped harvest of $7,000,000. How comes all this, ifthere be not something puissant in whaling?But this is not the half; look again.I freely assert, that the cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life,point out one single peaceful influence, which within the last sixtyyears has operated more potentially upon the whole broad world, takenin one aggregate, than the high and mighty business of whaling. One wayand another, it has begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and socontinuously momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling maywell be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore offspring themselvespregnant from her womb. It would be a hopeless, endless task tocatalogue all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years pastthe whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest andleast known parts of the earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoeswhich had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. IfAmerican and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savageharbors, let them fire salutes to the honor and glory of thewhale-ship, which originally showed them the way, and first interpretedbetween them and the savages. They may celebrate as they will theheroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but Isay that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out of Nantucket,that were as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern.For in their succourless empty-handedness, they, in the heathenishsharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cook with all his marinesand muskets would not willingly have dared. All that is made such aflourish of in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but thelife-time commonplaces of our heroic Nantucketers. Often, adventureswhich Vancouver dedicates three chapters to, these men accountedunworthy of being set down in the ship’s common log. Ah, the world! Oh,the world!Until the whale fishery rounded Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial,scarcely any intercourse but colonial, was carried on between Europeand the long line of the opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacificcoast. It was the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policyof the Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if space permitted,it might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last eventuatedthe liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old Spain,and the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.That great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, wasgiven to the enlightened world by the whaleman. After its firstblunder-born discovery by a Dutchman, all other ships long shunnedthose shores as pestiferously barbarous; but the whale-ship touchedthere. The whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony.Moreover, in the infancy of the first Australian settlement, theemigrants were several times saved from starvation by the benevolentbiscuit of the whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in their waters.The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the same truth, and docommercial homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way for themissionary and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitivemissionaries to their first destinations. If that double-bolted land,Japan, is ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whomthe credit will be due; for already she is on the threshold.But if, in the face of all this, you still declare that whaling has noæsthetically noble associations connected with it, then am I ready toshiver fifty lances with you there, and unhorse you with a split helmetevery time.The whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, youwill say.The whale no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler? Whowrote the first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty Job! And whocomposed the first narrative of a whaling-voyage? Who, but no less aprince than Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal pen, took downthe words from Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter of those times! Andwho pronounced our glowing eulogy in Parliament? Who, but Edmund Burke!True enough, but then whalemen themselves are poor devils; they have nogood blood in their veins.No good blood in their veins? They have something better than royalblood there. The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel;afterwards, by marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old settlers ofNantucket, and the ancestress to a long line of Folgers andharpooneers—all kith and kin to noble Benjamin—this day darting thebarbed iron from one side of the world to the other.Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is notrespectable.Whaling not respectable? Whaling is imperial! By old Englishstatutory law, the whale is declared “a royal fish.” *Oh, that’s only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in anygrand imposing way.The whale never figured in any grand imposing way? In one of themighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world’scapital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syriancoast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.**See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.Grant it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no realdignity in whaling.No dignity in whaling? The dignity of our calling the very heavensattest. Cetus is a constellation in the South! No more! Drive down yourhat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! Iknow a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fiftywhales. I account that man more honorable than that great captain ofantiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns.And, as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as yetundiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall ever deserve any real reputein that small but high hushed world which I might not be unreasonablyambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, aman might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at my death,my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. inmy desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the gloryto whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.CHAPTER 25. Postscript.In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught butsubstantiated facts. But after embattling his facts, an advocate whoshould wholly suppress a not unreasonable surmise, which might telleloquently upon his cause—such an advocate, would he not beblameworthy?It is well known that at the coronation of kings and queens, evenmodern ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for theirfunctions is gone through. There is a saltcellar of state, so called,and there may be a castor of state. How they use the salt,precisely—who knows? Certain I am, however, that a king’s head issolemnly oiled at his coronation, even as a head of salad. Can it be,though, that they anoint it with a view of making its interior runwell, as they anoint machinery? Much might be ruminated here,concerning the essential dignity of this regal process, because incommon life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anointshis hair, and palpably smells of that anointing. In truth, a mature manwho uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got aquoggy spot in him somewhere. As a general rule, he can’t amount tomuch in his totality.But the only thing to be considered here, is this—what kind of oil isused at coronations? Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassaroil, nor castor oil, nor bear’s oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil.What then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured,unpolluted state, the sweetest of all oils?Think of that, ye loyal Britons! we whalemen supply your kings andqueens with coronation stuff!CHAPTER 26. Knights and Squires.The chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and aQuaker by descent. He was a long, earnest man, and though born on anicy coast, seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes, his flesh beinghard as twice-baked biscuit. Transported to the Indies, his live bloodwould not spoil like bottled ale. He must have been born in some timeof general drought and famine, or upon one of those fast days for whichhis state is famous. Only some thirty arid summers had he seen; thosesummers had dried up all his physical superfluousness. But this, histhinness, so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxietiesand cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight. It wasmerely the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking;quite the contrary. His pure tight skin was an excellent fit; andclosely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and strength,like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure forlong ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snowor torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality waswarranted to do well in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemedto see there the yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils hehad calmly confronted through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose lifefor the most part was a telling pantomime of action, and not a tamechapter of sounds. Yet, for all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, therewere certain qualities in him which at times affected, and in somecases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the rest. Uncommonlyconscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural reverence,the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly inclinehim to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in someorganizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence thanfrom ignorance. Outward portents and inward presentiments were his. Andif at times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much moredid his far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child,tend to bend him still more from the original ruggedness of his nature,and open him still further to those latent influences which, in somehonest-hearted men, restrain the gush of dare-devil daring, so oftenevinced by others in the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery. “Iwill have no man in my boat,” said Starbuck, “who is not afraid of awhale.” By this, he seemed to mean, not only that the most reliable anduseful courage was that which arises from the fair estimation of theencountered peril, but that an utterly fearless man is a far moredangerous comrade than a coward.“Aye, aye,” said Stubb, the second mate, “Starbuck, there, is ascareful a man as you’ll find anywhere in this fishery.” But we shallere long see what that word “careful” precisely means when used by aman like Stubb, or almost any other whale hunter.Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him courage was not asentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always at hand uponall mortally practical occasions. Besides, he thought, perhaps, that inthis business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfitsof the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishlywasted. Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales aftersun-down; nor for persisting in fighting a fish that too much persistedin fighting him. For, thought Starbuck, I am here in this criticalocean to kill whales for my living, and not to be killed by them fortheirs; and that hundreds of men had been so killed Starbuck well knew.What doom was his own father’s? Where, in the bottomless deeps, couldhe find the torn limbs of his brother?With memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certainsuperstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck whichcould, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme. Butit was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with suchterrible experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in naturethat these things should fail in latently engendering an element inhim, which, under suitable circumstances, would break out from itsconfinement, and burn all his courage up. And brave as he might be, itwas that sort of bravery chiefly, visible in some intrepid men, which,while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas, or winds, orwhales, or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world, yetcannot withstand those more terrific, because more spiritual terrors,which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enragedand mighty man.But were the coming narrative to reveal in any instance, the completeabasement of poor Starbuck’s fortitude, scarce might I have the heartto write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to exposethe fall of valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable as jointstock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be;men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so nobleand so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over anyignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw theircostliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves, sofar within us, that it remains intact though all the outer characterseem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of avalor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars. Butthis august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes,but that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shaltsee it shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; thatdemocratic dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God;Himself! The great God absolute! The centre and circumference of alldemocracy! His omnipresence, our divine equality!If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and castaways, I shallhereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round them tragicgraces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased, amongthem all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shalltouch that workman’s arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread arainbow over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal criticsbear me out in it, thou just Spirit of Equality, which hast spread oneroyal mantle of humanity over all my kind! Bear me out in it, thougreat democratic God! who didst not refuse to the swart convict,Bunyan, the pale, poetic pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doublyhammered leaves of finest gold, the stumped and paupered arm of oldCervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew Jackson from the pebbles; whodidst hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst thunder him higher than athrone! Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly marchings, ever cullestThy selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear me out in it, OGod!CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.Stubb was the second mate. He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence,according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky;neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as they came with anindifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of thechase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engagedfor the year. Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over hiswhale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and hiscrew all invited guests. He was as particular about the comfortablearrangement of his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is aboutthe snugness of his box. When close to the whale, in the verydeath-lock of the fight, he handled his unpitying lance coolly andoff-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer. He would hum over hisold rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most exasperatedmonster. Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of deathinto an easy chair. What he thought of death itself, there is notelling. Whether he ever thought of it at all, might be a question;but, if he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after acomfortable dinner, no doubt, like a good sailor, he took it to be asort of call of the watch to tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there,about something which he would find out when he obeyed the order, andnot sooner.What, perhaps, with other things, made Stubb such an easy-going,unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off with the burden of life in aworld full of grave pedlars, all bowed to the ground with their packs;what helped to bring about that almost impious good-humor of his; thatthing must have been his pipe. For, like his nose, his short, blacklittle pipe was one of the regular features of his face. You wouldalmost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without hisnose as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes there readyloaded, stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand; and, wheneverhe turned in, he smoked them all out in succession, lighting one fromthe other to the end of the chapter; then loading them again to be inreadiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting hislegs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of hispeculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air,whether ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the namelessmiseries of the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as intime of the cholera, some people go about with a camphoratedhandkerchief to their mouths; so, likewise, against all mortaltribulations, Stubb’s tobacco smoke might have operated as a sort ofdisinfecting agent.The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha’s Vineyard. Ashort, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales,who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personallyand hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it was a sort of point ofhonor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So utterly lostwas he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majesticbulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension ofany possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion,the wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at leastwater-rat, requiring only a little circumvention and some smallapplication of time and trouble in order to kill and boil. Thisignorant, unconscious fearlessness of his made him a little waggish inthe matter of whales; he followed these fish for the fun of it; and athree years’ voyage round Cape Horn was only a jolly joke that lastedthat length of time. As a carpenter’s nails are divided into wroughtnails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little Flaskwas one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long. Theycalled him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form, he couldbe well likened to the short, square timber known by that name inArctic whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbersinserted into it, serves to brace the ship against the icy concussionsof those battering seas.Now these three mates—Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were momentous men.They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of thePequod’s boats as headsmen. In that grand order of battle in whichCaptain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on thewhales, these three headsmen were as captains of companies. Or, beingarmed with their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trioof lancers; even as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.And since in this famous fishery, each mate or headsman, like a GothicKnight of old, is always accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer,who in certain conjunctures provides him with a fresh lance, when theformer one has been badly twisted, or elbowed in the assault; andmoreover, as there generally subsists between the two, a close intimacyand friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in this place we setdown who the Pequod’s harpooneers were, and to what headsman each ofthem belonged.First of all was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, the chief mate, had selectedfor his squire. But Queequeg is already known.Next was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerlypromontory of Martha’s Vineyard, where there still exists the lastremnant of a village of red men, which has long supplied theneighboring island of Nantucket with many of her most daringharpooneers. In the fishery, they usually go by the generic name ofGay-Headers. Tashtego’s long, lean, sable hair, his high cheek bones,and black rounding eyes—for an Indian, Oriental in their largeness, butAntarctic in their glittering expression—all this sufficientlyproclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those proudwarrior hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, hadscoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main. But no longersnuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego nowhunted in the wake of the great whales of the sea; the unerring harpoonof the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires. To lookat the tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost havecredited the superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, andhalf-believed this wild Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powersof the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second mate’s squire.Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-blacknegro-savage, with a lion-like tread—an Ahasuerus to behold. Suspendedfrom his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors calledthem ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards tothem. In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler,lying in a lonely bay on his native coast. And never having beenanywhere in the world but in Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harborsmost frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years the boldlife of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of whatmanner of men they shipped; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues,and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in all the pomp of sixfeet five in his socks. There was a corporeal humility in looking up athim; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come tobeg truce of a fortress. Curious to tell, this imperial negro,Ahasuerus Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like achess-man beside him. As for the residue of the Pequod’s company, be itsaid, that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand menbefore the mast employed in the American whale fishery, are Americansborn, though pretty nearly all the officers are. Herein it is the samewith the American whale fishery as with the American army and militaryand merchant navies, and the engineering forces employed in theconstruction of the American Canals and Railroads. The same, I say,because in all these cases the native American liberally provides thebrains, the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles. Nosmall number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores, where theoutward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crewsfrom the hardy peasants of those rocky shores. In like manner, theGreenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the ShetlandIslands, to receive the full complement of their crew. Upon the passagehomewards, they drop them there again. How it is, there is no telling,but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen. They were nearly allIslanders in the Pequod, Isolatoes too, I call such, notacknowledging the common continent of men, but each Isolato living ona separate continent of his own. Yet now, federated along one keel,what a set these Isolatoes were! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation fromall the isles of the sea, and all the ends of the earth, accompanyingOld Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world’s grievances before that barfrom which not very many of them ever come back. Black Little Pip—henever did—oh, no! he went before. Poor Alabama boy! On the grimPequod’s forecastle, ye shall ere long see him, beating his tambourine;prelusive of the eternal time, when sent for, to the great quarter-deckon high, he was bid strike in with angels, and beat his tambourine inglory; called a coward here, hailed a hero there!CHAPTER 28. Ahab.For several days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches wasseen of Captain Ahab. The mates regularly relieved each other at thewatches, and for aught that could be seen to the contrary, they seemedto be the only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued fromthe cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it wasplain they but commanded vicariously. Yes, their supreme lord anddictator was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted topenetrate into the now sacred retreat of the cabin.Every time I ascended to the deck from my watches below, I instantlygazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vaguedisquietude touching the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of thesea, became almost a perturbation. This was strangely heightened attimes by the ragged Elijah’s diabolical incoherences uninvitedlyrecurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceivedof. But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I wasalmost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandishprophet of the wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness oruneasiness—to call it so—which I felt, yet whenever I came to lookabout me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish suchemotions. For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew,were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of thetame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made meacquainted with, still I ascribed this—and rightly ascribed it—to thefierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocationin which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially theaspect of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which wasmost forcibly calculated to allay these colourless misgivings, andinduce confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage.Three better, more likely sea-officers and men, each in his owndifferent way, could not readily be found, and they were every one ofthem Americans; a Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it beingChristmas when the ship shot from out her harbor, for a space we hadbiting Polar weather, though all the time running away from it to thesouthward; and by every degree and minute of latitude which we sailed,gradually leaving that merciless winter, and all its intolerableweather behind us. It was one of those less lowering, but still greyand gloomy enough mornings of the transition, when with a fair wind theship was rushing through the water with a vindictive sort of leapingand melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted to the deck at the call ofthe forenoon watch, so soon as I levelled my glance towards thetaffrail, foreboding shivers ran over me. Reality outran apprehension;Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck.There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him, nor of therecovery from any. He looked like a man cut away from the stake, whenthe fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness. Hiswhole high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in anunalterable mould, like Cellini’s cast Perseus. Threading its way outfrom among his grey hairs, and continuing right down one side of histawny scorched face and neck, till it disappeared in his clothing, yousaw a slender rod-like mark, lividly whitish. It resembled thatperpendicular seam sometimes made in the straight, lofty trunk of agreat tree, when the upper lightning tearingly darts down it, andwithout wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves out the bark fromtop to bottom, ere running off into the soil, leaving the tree stillgreenly alive, but branded. Whether that mark was born with him, orwhether it was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one couldcertainly say. By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little orno allusion was made to it, especially by the mates. But onceTashtego’s senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew,superstitiously asserted that not till he was full forty years old didAhab become that way branded, and then it came upon him, not in thefury of any mortal fray, but in an elemental strife at sea. Yet, thiswild hint seemed inferentially negatived, by what a grey Manxmaninsinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never before sailed outof Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab. Nevertheless,the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly investedthis old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment. So that nowhite sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if everCaptain Ahab should be tranquilly laid out—which might hardly come topass, so he muttered—then, whoever should do that last office for thedead, would find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole.So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and thelivid brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardlynoted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to thebarbaric white leg upon which he partly stood. It had previously cometo me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polishedbone of the sperm whale’s jaw. “Aye, he was dismasted off Japan,” saidthe old Gay-Head Indian once; “but like his dismasted craft, he shippedanother mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of ’em.”I was struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon each side ofthe Pequod’s quarter deck, and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds,there was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into theplank. His bone leg steadied in that hole; one arm elevated, andholding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking straight outbeyond the ship’s ever-pitching prow. There was an infinity of firmestfortitude, a determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in the fixed andfearless, forward dedication of that glance. Not a word he spoke; nordid his officers say aught to him; though by all their minutestgestures and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if notpainful, consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye. And notonly that, but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixionin his face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of somemighty woe.Ere long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.But after that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; eitherstanding in his pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; orheavily walking the deck. As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began togrow a little genial, he became still less and less a recluse; as if,when the ship had sailed from home, nothing but the dead wintrybleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded. And, by and by, itcame to pass, that he was almost continually in the air; but, as yet,for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at last sunny deck, heseemed as unnecessary there as another mast. But the Pequod was onlymaking a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all whalingpreparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to, sothat there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or exciteAhab, now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds thatlayer upon layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choosethe loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon.Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling persuasiveness of thepleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually to charm himfrom his mood. For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls, April andMay, trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest,ruggedest, most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth somefew green sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did,in the end, a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlishair. More than once did he put forth the faint blossom of a look,which, in any other man, would have soon flowered out in a smile.CHAPTER 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.Some days elapsed, and ice and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now wentrolling through the bright Quito spring, which, at sea, almostperpetually reigns on the threshold of the eternal August of theTropic. The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing,redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heapedup—flaked up, with rose-water snow. The starred and stately nightsseemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonelypride, the memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmetedsuns! For sleeping man, ’twas hard to choose between such winsome daysand such seducing nights. But all the witcheries of that unwaningweather did not merely lend new spells and potencies to the outwardworld. Inward they turned upon the soul, especially when the still mildhours of eve came on; then, memory shot her crystals as the clear icemost forms of noiseless twilights. And all these subtle agencies, moreand more they wrought on Ahab’s texture.Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the lessman has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders,the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit thenight-cloaked deck. It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, heseemed so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visitswere more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks. “It feelslike going down into one’s tomb,”—he would mutter to himself—“for anold captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle, to go to mygrave-dug berth.”So, almost every twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night wereset, and the band on deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below;and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the forecastle, the sailorsflung it not rudely down, as by day, but with some cautiousness droptit to its place for fear of disturbing their slumbering shipmates; whenthis sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail, habitually, thesilent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and ere long the oldman would emerge, gripping at the iron banister, to help his crippledway. Some considering touch of humanity was in him; for at times likethese, he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; becauseto his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivoryheel, such would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bonystep, that their dreams would have been on the crunching teeth ofsharks. But once, the mood was on him too deep for common regardings;and as with heavy, lumber-like pace he was measuring the ship fromtaffrail to mainmast, Stubb, the old second mate, came up from below,with a certain unassured, deprecating humorousness, hinted that ifCaptain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks, then, no one could saynay; but there might be some way of muffling the noise; hintingsomething indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow, and theinsertion into it, of the ivory heel. Ah! Stubb, thou didst not knowAhab then.“Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb,” said Ahab, “that thou wouldst wad me thatfashion? But go thy ways; I had forgot. Below to thy nightly grave;where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one atlast.—Down, dog, and kennel!”Starting at the unforseen concluding exclamation of the so suddenlyscornful old man, Stubb was speechless a moment; then said excitedly,“I am not used to be spoken to that way, sir; I do but less than halflike it, sir.”“Avast! gritted Ahab between his set teeth, and violently moving away,as if to avoid some passionate temptation.“No, sir; not yet,” said Stubb, emboldened, “I will not tamely becalled a dog, sir.”“Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and begone,or I’ll clear the world of thee!”As he said this, Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrorsin his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated.“I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,”muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle. “It’svery queer. Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don’t well know whether to goback and strike him, or—what’s that?—down here on my knees and pray forhim? Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be thefirst time I ever did pray. It’s queer; very queer; and he’s queertoo; aye, take him fore and aft, he’s about the queerest old man Stubbever sailed with. How he flashed at me!—his eyes like powder-pans! ishe mad? Anyway there’s something on his mind, as sure as there must besomething on a deck when it cracks. He aint in his bed now, either,more than three hours out of the twenty-four; and he don’t sleep then.Didn’t that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he alwaysfinds the old man’s hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and thesheets down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, andthe pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been onit? A hot old man! I guess he’s got what some folks ashore call aconscience; it’s a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say—worse nor atoothache. Well, well; I don’t know what it is, but the Lord keep mefrom catching it. He’s full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into theafter hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what’sthat for, I should like to know? Who’s made appointments with him inthe hold? Ain’t that queer, now? But there’s no telling, it’s the oldgame—Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it’s worth a fellow’s while to beborn into the world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I thinkof it, that’s about the first thing babies do, and that’s a sort ofqueer, too. Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of ’em.But that’s against my principles. Think not, is my eleventhcommandment; and sleep when you can, is my twelfth—So here goes again.But how’s that? didn’t he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten timesa donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on top of that! He might aswell have kicked me, and done with it. Maybe he did kick me, and Ididn’t observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow. Itflashed like a bleached bone. What the devil’s the matter with me? Idon’t stand right on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sortof turned me wrong side out. By the Lord, I must have been dreaming,though—How? how? how?—but the only way’s to stash it; so here goes tohammock again; and in the morning, I’ll see how this plaguey jugglingthinks over by daylight.”CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while leaning over thebulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of late, calling asailor of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and alsohis pipe. Lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the stoolon the weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.In old Norse times, the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings werefabricated, saith tradition, of the tusks of the narwhale. How couldone look at Ahab then, seated on that tripod of bones, withoutbethinking him of the royalty it symbolized? For a Khan of the plank,and a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab.Some moments passed, during which the thick vapor came from his mouthin quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face. “Hownow,” he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, “this smoking nolonger soothes. Oh, my pipe! hard must it go with me if thy charm begone! Here have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring—aye, andignorantly smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and withsuch nervous whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets werethe strongest and fullest of trouble. What business have I with thispipe? This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up mild whitevapors among mild white hairs, not among torn iron-grey locks likemine. I’ll smoke no more—”He tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea. The fire hissed in thewaves; the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipemade. With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.CHAPTER 31. Queen Mab.Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.“Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know the old man’sivory leg, well I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried tokick back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off! Andthen, presto! Ahab seemed a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, keptkicking at it. But what was still more curious, Flask—you know howcurious all dreams are—through all this rage that I was in, I somehowseemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of aninsult, that kick from Ahab. ‘Why,’ thinks I, ‘what’s the row? It’s nota real leg, only a false leg.’ And there’s a mighty difference betweena living thump and a dead thump. That’s what makes a blow from thehand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.The living member—that makes the living insult, my little man. Andthinks I to myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my sillytoes against that cursed pyramid—so confoundedly contradictory was itall, all the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, ‘what’s his legnow, but a cane—a whalebone cane. Yes,’ thinks I, ‘it was only aplayful cudgelling—in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me—not abase kick. Besides,’ thinks I, ‘look at it once; why, the end of it—thefoot part—what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footedfarmer kicked me, there’s a devilish broad insult. But this insult iswhittled down to a point only.’ But now comes the greatest joke of thedream, Flask. While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort ofbadger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by theshoulders, and slews me round. ‘What are you ’bout?’ says he. Slid!man, but I was frightened. Such a phiz! But, somehow, next moment I wasover the fright. ‘What am I about?’ says I at last. ‘And what businessis that of yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback? Do you want akick?’ By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turnedround his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed hehad for a clout—what do you think, I saw?—why thunder alive, man, hisstern was stuck full of marlinspikes, with the points out. Says I, onsecond thoughts, ‘I guess I won’t kick you, old fellow.’ ‘Wise Stubb,’said he, ‘wise Stubb;’ and kept muttering it all the time, a sort ofeating of his own gums like a chimney hag. Seeing he wasn’t going tostop saying over his ‘wise Stubb, wise Stubb,’ I thought I might aswell fall to kicking the pyramid again. But I had only just lifted myfoot for it, when he roared out, ‘Stop that kicking!’ ‘Halloa,’ says I,‘what’s the matter now, old fellow?’ ‘Look ye here,’ says he; ‘let’sargue the insult. Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn’t he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’says I—‘right here it was.’ ‘Very good,’ says he—‘he used his ivoryleg, didn’t he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’ says I. ‘Well then,’ says he, ‘wiseStubb, what have you to complain of? Didn’t he kick with right goodwill? it wasn’t a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it? No, youwere kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb. It’san honor; I consider it an honor. Listen, wise Stubb. In old Englandthe greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen, andmade garter-knights of; but, be your boast, Stubb, that ye werekicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of. Remember what I say; bekicked by him; account his kicks honors; and on no account kick back;for you can’t help yourself, wise Stubb. Don’t you see that pyramid?’With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, toswim off into the air. I snored; rolled over; and there I was in myhammock! Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?”“I don’t know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.’”“May be; may be. But it’s made a wise man of me, Flask. D’ye see Ahabstanding there, sideways looking over the stern? Well, the best thingyou can do, Flask, is to let the old man alone; never speak to him,whatever he says. Halloa! What’s that he shouts? Hark!”“Mast-head, there! Look sharp, all of ye! There are whales hereabouts!“If ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!“What do you think of that now, Flask? ain’t there a small drop ofsomething queer about that, eh? A white whale—did ye mark that, man?Look ye—there’s something special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask.Ahab has that that’s bloody on his mind. But, mum; he comes this way.”CHAPTER 32. Cetology.Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lostin its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; erethe Pequod’s weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls ofthe leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matteralmost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of themore special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts whichare to follow.It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,that I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. Theclassification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is hereessayed. Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.“No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitledCetology,” says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.“It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the inquiryas to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and families.* * * Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal”(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839.“Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters.”“Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea.” “A fieldstrewn with thorns.” “All these incomplete indications but serve totorture us naturalists.”Thus speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson,those lights of zoology and anatomy. Nevertheless, though of realknowledge there be little, yet of books there are a plenty; and so insome small degree, with cetology, or the science of whales. Many arethe men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen, who have atlarge or in little, written of the whale. Run over a few:—The Authorsof the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne; Gesner;Ray; Linnæus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald; Brisson;Marten; Lacépède; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; FrederickCuvier; John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne;the Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev. T. Cheever. But towhat ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the abovecited extracts will show.Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following Owenever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professionalharpooneer and whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On the separatesubject of the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existingauthority. But Scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of the greatsperm whale, compared with which the Greenland whale is almost unworthymentioning. And here be it said, that the Greenland whale is an usurperupon the throne of the seas. He is not even by any means the largest ofthe whales. Yet, owing to the long priority of his claims, and theprofound ignorance which, till some seventy years back, invested thethen fabulous or utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which ignorance tothis present day still reigns in all but some few scientific retreatsand whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete. Referenceto nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of pastdays, will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, wasto them the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come for anew proclamation. This is Charing Cross; hear ye! good people all,—theGreenland whale is deposed,—the great sperm whale now reigneth!There are only two books in being which at all pretend to put theliving sperm whale before you, and at the same time, in the remotestdegree succeed in the attempt. Those books are Beale’s and Bennett’s;both in their time surgeons to English South-Sea whale-ships, and bothexact and reliable men. The original matter touching the sperm whale tobe found in their volumes is necessarily small; but so far as it goes,it is of excellent quality, though mostly confined to scientificdescription. As yet, however, the sperm whale, scientific or poetic,lives not complete in any literature. Far above all other huntedwhales, his is an unwritten life.Now the various species of whales need some sort of popularcomprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for thepresent, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by subsequentlaborers. As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, Ihereupon offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing complete;because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that veryreason infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomicaldescription of the various species, or—in this place at least—to muchof any description. My object here is simply to project the draught ofa systematization of cetology. I am the architect, not the builder.But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in thePost-Office is equal to it. To grope down into the bottom of the seaafter them; to have one’s hands among the unspeakable foundations,ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing. What am Ithat I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan! The awfultauntings in Job might well appal me. Will he (the leviathan) make acovenant with thee? Behold the hope of him is vain! But I have swamthrough libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do withwhales with these visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try. Thereare some preliminaries to settle.First: The uncertain, unsettled condition of this science of Cetologyis in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in some quarters itstill remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish. In his System ofNature, A.D. 1776, Linnæus declares, “I hereby separate the whales fromthe fish.” But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year 1850,sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnæus’s express edict,were still found dividing the possession of the same seas with theLeviathan.The grounds upon which Linnæus would fain have banished the whales fromthe waters, he states as follows: “On account of their warm bilocularheart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penemintrantem feminam mammis lactantem,” and finally, “ex lege naturæ juremeritoque.” I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and CharleyCoffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, andthey united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogetherinsufficient. Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.Be it known that, waiving all argument, I take the good old fashionedground that the whale is a fish, and call upon holy Jonah to back me.This fundamental thing settled, the next point is, in what internalrespect does the whale differ from other fish. Above, Linnæus has givenyou those items. But in brief, they are these: lungs and warm blood;whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so asconspicuously to label him for all time to come? To be short, then, awhale is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail. There you have him.However contracted, that definition is the result of expandedmeditation. A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not afish, because he is amphibious. But the last term of the definition isstill more cogent, as coupled with the first. Almost any one must havenoticed that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but avertical, or up-and-down tail. Whereas, among spouting fish the tail,though it may be similarly shaped, invariably assumes a horizontalposition.By the above definition of what a whale is, I do by no means excludefrom the leviathanic brotherhood any sea creature hitherto identifiedwith the whale by the best informed Nantucketers; nor, on the otherhand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively regarded asalien.* Hence, all the smaller, spouting, and horizontal tailed fishmust be included in this ground-plan of Cetology. Now, then, come thegrand divisions of the entire whale host.*I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins andDugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) areincluded by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fishare a noisy, contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers,and feeding on wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I denytheir credentials as whales; and have presented them with theirpassports to quit the Kingdom of Cetology.First: According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primaryBOOKS (subdivisible into CHAPTERS), and these shall comprehend themall, both small and large.I. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE.As the type of the FOLIO I present the Sperm Whale; of the OCTAVO,the Grampus; of the DUODECIMO, the Porpoise.FOLIOS. Among these I here include the following chapters:—I. TheSperm Whale; II. the Right Whale; III. the Fin-Back Whale; IV.the Hump-backed Whale; V. the Razor Back Whale; VI. the SulphurBottom Whale.BOOK I. (Folio), CHAPTER I. (Sperm Whale).—This whale, among theEnglish of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeterwhale, and the Anvil Headed whale, is the present Cachalot of theFrench, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of theLong Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe;the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the most majestic inaspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce; he being theonly creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, isobtained. All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlargedupon. It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do. Philologicallyconsidered, it is absurd. Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale wasalmost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oilwas only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those daysspermaceti, it would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from acreature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenlandor Right Whale. It was the idea also, that this same spermaceti wasthat quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllableof the word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermaceti wasexceedingly scarce, not being used for light, but only as an ointmentand medicament. It was only to be had from the druggists as younowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb. When, as I opine, in the course oftime, the true nature of spermaceti became known, its original name wasstill retained by the dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by anotion so strangely significant of its scarcity. And so the appellationmust at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which thisspermaceti was really derived.BOOK I. (Folio), CHAPTER II. (Right Whale).—In one respect this isthe most venerable of the leviathans, being the one first regularlyhunted by man. It yields the article commonly known as whalebone orbaleen; and the oil specially known as “whale oil,” an inferior articlein commerce. Among the fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated byall the following titles: The Whale; the Greenland Whale; the BlackWhale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale. There is adeal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species thusmultitudinously baptised. What then is the whale, which I include inthe second species of my Folios? It is the Great Mysticetus of theEnglish naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English whalemen; theBaleine Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of theSwedes. It is the whale which for more than two centuries past has beenhunted by the Dutch and English in the Arctic seas; it is the whalewhich the American fishermen have long pursued in the Indian ocean, onthe Brazil Banks, on the Nor’ West Coast, and various other parts ofthe world, designated by them Right Whale Cruising Grounds.Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland whale of theEnglish and the right whale of the Americans. But they precisely agreein all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a singledeterminate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is byendless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, thatsome departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.The right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, withreference to elucidating the sperm whale.BOOK I. (Folio), CHAPTER III. (Fin-Back).—Under this head I reckona monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, andLong-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whalewhose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing theAtlantic, in the New York packet-tracks. In the length he attains, andin his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a lessportly girth, and a lighter colour, approaching to olive. His greatlips present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slantingfolds of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin,from which he derives his name, is often a conspicuous object. This finis some three or four feet long, growing vertically from the hinderpart of the back, of an angular shape, and with a very sharp pointedend. Even if not the slightest other part of the creature be visible,this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from thesurface. When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked withspherical ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadowsupon the wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that the waterycircle surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style andwavy hour-lines graved on it. On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goesback. The Fin-Back is not gregarious. He seems a whale-hater, as somemen are man-haters. Very shy; always going solitary; unexpectedlyrising to the surface in the remotest and most sullen waters; hisstraight and single lofty jet rising like a tall misanthropic spearupon a barren plain; gifted with such wondrous power and velocity inswimming, as to defy all present pursuit from man; this leviathan seemsthe banished and unconquerable Cain of his race, bearing for his markthat style upon his back. From having the baleen in his mouth, theFin-Back is sometimes included with the right whale, among a theoreticspecies denominated Whalebone whales, that is, whales with baleen. Ofthese so called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be severalvarieties, most of which, however, are little known. Broad-nosed whalesand beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawedwhales and rostrated whales, are the fishermen’s names for a few sorts.In connection with this appellative of “Whalebone whales,” it is ofgreat importance to mention, that however such a nomenclature may beconvenient in facilitating allusions to some kind of whales, yet it isin vain to attempt a clear classification of the Leviathan, foundedupon either his baleen, or hump, or fin, or teeth; notwithstanding thatthose marked parts or features very obviously seem better adapted toafford the basis for a regular system of Cetology than any otherdetached bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his kinds, presents.How then? The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are things whosepeculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of whales,without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure inother and more essential particulars. Thus, the sperm whale and thehumpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases.Then, this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of thesehas baleen; but there again the similitude ceases. And it is just thesame with the other parts above mentioned. In various sorts of whales,they form such irregular combinations; or, in the case of any one ofthem detached, such an irregular isolation; as utterly to defy allgeneral methodization formed upon such a basis. On this rock every oneof the whale-naturalists has split.But it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of thewhale, in his anatomy—there, at least, we shall be able to hit theright classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in theGreenland whale’s anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yet we haveseen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify theGreenland whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the variousleviathans, why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part asavailable to the systematizer as those external ones alreadyenumerated. What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whalesbodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way.And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the onlyone that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed.BOOK I. (Folio) CHAPTER IV. (Hump Back).—This whale is often seenon the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there,and towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; oryou might call him the Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, thepopular name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since thesperm whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not veryvaluable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted ofall the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than anyother of them.BOOK I. (Folio), CHAPTER V. (Razor Back).—Of this whale little isknown but his name. I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn. Of aretiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers. Though nocoward, he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, whichrises in a long sharp ridge. Let him go. I know little more of him, nordoes anybody else.BOOK I. (Folio), CHAPTER VI. (Sulphur Bottom).—Another retiringgentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along theTartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen;at least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas, andthen always at too great a distance to study his countenance. He isnever chased; he would run away with rope-walks of line. Prodigies aretold of him. Adieu, Sulphur Bottom! I can say nothing more that is trueof ye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer.Thus ends BOOK I. (Folio), and now begins BOOK II. (Octavo).OCTAVOES.*—These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among whichpresent may be numbered:—I., the Grampus; II., the Black Fish;III., the Narwhale; IV., the Thrasher; V., the Killer.*Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.Because, while the whales of this order, though smaller than those ofthe former order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to themin figure, yet the bookbinder’s Quarto volume in its dimensioned formdoes not preserve the shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volumedoes.BOOK II. (Octavo), CHAPTER I. (Grampus).—Though this fish, whoseloud sonorous breathing, or rather blowing, has furnished a proverb tolandsmen, is so well known a denizen of the deep, yet is he notpopularly classed among whales. But possessing all the granddistinctive features of the leviathan, most naturalists have recognisedhim for one. He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen totwenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round thewaist. He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oilis considerable in quantity, and pretty good for light. By somefishermen his approach is regarded as premonitory of the advance of thegreat sperm whale.BOOK II. (Octavo), CHAPTER II. (Black Fish).—I give the popularfishermen’s names for all these fish, for generally they are the best.Where any name happens to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, andsuggest another. I do so now, touching the Black Fish, so-called,because blackness is the rule among almost all whales. So, call him theHyena Whale, if you please. His voracity is well known, and from thecircumstance that the inner angles of his lips are curved upwards, hecarries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his face. This whaleaverages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almostall latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked finin swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not moreprofitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture theHyena whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domesticemployment—as some frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, andquite alone by themselves, burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.Though their blubber is very thin, some of these whales will yield youupwards of thirty gallons of oil.BOOK II. (Octavo), CHAPTER III. (Narwhale), that is, Nostrilwhale.—Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I supposefrom his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. Thecreature is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages fivefeet, though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet. Strictlyspeaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jawin a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is only foundon the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its ownersomething analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left-handed man. Whatprecise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard tosay. It does not seem to be used like the blade of the sword-fish andbill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale employs it fora rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food. Charley Coffinsaid it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to thesurface of the Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts hishorn up, and so breaks through. But you cannot prove either of thesesurmises to be correct. My own opinion is, that however this one-sidedhorn may really be used by the Narwhale—however that may be—it wouldcertainly be very convenient to him for a folder in reading pamphlets.The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked whale, the Horned whale,and the Unicorn whale. He is certainly a curious example of theUnicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature. Fromcertain cloistered old authors I have gathered that this samesea-unicorn’s horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidoteagainst poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.It was also distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the sameway that the horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn.Originally it was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity.Black Letter tells me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his return from thatvoyage, when Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to himfrom a window of Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down theThames; “when Sir Martin returned from that voyage,” saith BlackLetter, “on bended knees he presented to her highness a prodigious longhorn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in the castleat Windsor.” An Irish author avers that the Earl of Leicester, onbended knees, did likewise present to her highness another horn,pertaining to a land beast of the unicorn nature.The Narwhale has a very picturesque, leopard-like look, being of amilk-white ground colour, dotted with round and oblong spots of black.His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there is little of it,and he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas.BOOK II. (Octavo), CHAPTER IV. (Killer).—Of this whale little isprecisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professednaturalist. From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should saythat he was about the bigness of a grampus. He is very savage—a sort ofFeegee fish. He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, andhangs there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death.The Killer is never hunted. I never heard what sort of oil he has.Exception might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on theground of its indistinctness. For we are all killers, on land and onsea; Bonapartes and Sharks included.BOOK II. (Octavo), CHAPTER V. (Thrasher).—This gentleman is famousfor his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. Hemounts the Folio whale’s back, and as he swims, he works his passage byflogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similarprocess. Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Bothare outlaws, even in the lawless seas. Thus ends BOOK II. (Octavo), and begins BOOK III. (Duodecimo).DUODECIMOES.—These include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise.II. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise.To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it maypossibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or fivefeet should be marshalled among WHALES—a word, which, in the popularsense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set downabove as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of mydefinition of what a whale is—i.e. a spouting fish, with a horizontaltail.BOOK III. (Duodecimo), CHAPTER 1. (Huzza Porpoise).—This is thecommon porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my ownbestowal; for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and somethingmust be done to distinguish them. I call him thus, because he alwaysswims in hilarious shoals, which upon the broad sea keep tossingthemselves to heaven like caps in a Fourth-of-July crowd. Theirappearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner. Full offine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward.They are the lads that always live before the wind. They are accounteda lucky omen. If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholdingthese vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godlygamesomeness is not in ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yieldyou one good gallon of good oil. But the fine and delicate fluidextracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable. It is in request amongjewellers and watchmakers. Sailors put it on their hones. Porpoise meatis good eating, you know. It may never have occurred to you that aporpoise spouts. Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not veryreadily discernible. But the next time you have a chance, watch him;and you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in miniature.BOOK III. (Duodecimo), CHAPTER II. (Algerine Porpoise).—A pirate.Very savage. He is only found, I think, in the Pacific. He is somewhatlarger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make.Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him manytimes, but never yet saw him captured.BOOK III. (Duodecimo), CHAPTER III. (Mealy-mouthed Porpoise).—Thelargest kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far as itis known. The only English name, by which he has hitherto beendesignated, is that of the fishers—Right-Whale Porpoise, from thecircumstance that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio. Inshape, he differs in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of aless rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat andgentleman-like figure. He has no fins on his back (most other porpoiseshave), he has a lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazelhue. But his mealy-mouth spoils all. Though his entire back down to hisside fins is of a deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as the markin a ship’s hull, called the “bright waist,” that line streaks him fromstem to stern, with two separate colours, black above and white below.The white comprises part of his head, and the whole of his mouth, whichmakes him look as if he had just escaped from a felonious visit to ameal-bag. A most mean and mealy aspect! His oil is much like that ofthe common porpoise. * * * * * *Beyond the DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as thePorpoise is the smallest of the whales. Above, you have all theLeviathans of note. But there are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive,half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know byreputation, but not personally. I shall enumerate them by theirfore-castle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable tofuture investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. Ifany of the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, thenhe can readily be incorporated into this System, according to hisFolio, Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:—The Bottle-Nose Whale; the JunkWhale; the Pudding-Headed Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; theCannon Whale; the Scragg Whale; the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale;the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic,Dutch, and old English authorities, there might be quoted other listsof uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But Iomit them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting themfor mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing.Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system would not behere, and at once, perfected. You cannot but plainly see that I havekept my word. But I now leave my cetological System standing thusunfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with thecrane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For smallerections may be finished by their first architects; grand ones, trueones, ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from evercompleting anything. This whole book is but a draught—nay, but thedraught of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!CHAPTER 33. The Specksnyder.Concerning the officers of the whale-craft, this seems as good a placeas any to set down a little domestic peculiarity on ship-board, arisingfrom the existence of the harpooneer class of officers, a class unknownof course in any other marine than the whale-fleet.The large importance attached to the harpooneer’s vocation is evincedby the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuriesand more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in theperson now called the captain, but was divided between him and anofficer called the Specksnyder. Literally this word means Fat-Cutter;usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer. Inthose days, the captain’s authority was restricted to the navigationand general management of the vessel; while over the whale-huntingdepartment and all its concerns, the Specksnyder or Chief Harpooneerreigned supreme. In the British Greenland Fishery, under the corruptedtitle of Specksioneer, this old Dutch official is still retained, buthis former dignity is sadly abridged. At present he ranks simply assenior Harpooneer; and as such, is but one of the captain’s moreinferior subalterns. Nevertheless, as upon the good conduct of theharpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely depends, and sincein the American Fishery he is not only an important officer in theboat, but under certain circumstances (night watches on a whalingground) the command of the ship’s deck is also his; therefore the grandpolitical maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apartfrom the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as theirprofessional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded astheir social equal.Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, isthis—the first lives aft, the last forward. Hence, in whale-ships andmerchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; andso, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged inthe after part of the ship. That is to say, they take their meals inthe captain’s cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating withit.Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longestof all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, andthe community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, highor low, depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon theircommon luck, together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, andhard work; though all these things do in some cases tend to beget aless rigorous discipline than in merchantmen generally; yet, never mindhow much like an old Mesopotamian family these whalemen may, in someprimitive instances, live together; for all that, the punctiliousexternals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed,and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships inwhich you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elatedgrandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost asmuch outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not theshabbiest of pilot-cloth.And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the leastgiven to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homagehe ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though herequired no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon thequarter-deck; and though there were times when, owing to peculiarcircumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed, headdressed them in unusual terms, whether of condescension or interrorem, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was by no meansunobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.Nor, perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behindthose forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself;incidentally making use of them for other and more private ends thanthey were legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sultanism ofhis brain, which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested;through those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in anirresistible dictatorship. For be a man’s intellectual superiority whatit will, it can never assume the practical, available supremacy overother men, without the aid of some sort of external arts andentrenchments, always, in themselves, more or less paltry and base.This it is, that for ever keeps God’s true princes of the Empire fromthe world’s hustings; and leaves the highest honors that this air cangive, to those men who become famous more through their infiniteinferiority to the choice hidden handful of the Divine Inert, thanthrough their undoubted superiority over the dead level of the mass.Such large virtue lurks in these small things when extreme politicalsuperstitions invest them, that in some royal instances even to idiotimbecility they have imparted potency. But when, as in the case ofNicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire encircles animperial brain; then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before thetremendous centralization. Nor, will the tragic dramatist who woulddepict mortal indomitableness in its fullest sweep and direct swing,ever forget a hint, incidentally so important in his art, as the onenow alluded to.But Ahab, my Captain, still moves before me in all his Nantucketgrimness and shagginess; and in this episode touching Emperors andKings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with a poor oldwhale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical trappingsand housings are denied me. Oh, Ahab! what shall be grand in thee, itmust needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, andfeatured in the unbodied air!CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table.It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the steward, thrusting his paleloaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scuttle, announces dinner to his lordand master; who, sitting in the lee quarter-boat, has just been takingan observation of the sun; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude onthe smooth, medallion-shaped tablet, reserved for that daily purpose onthe upper part of his ivory leg. From his complete inattention to thetidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not heard his menial. Butpresently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he swings himself to thedeck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying, “Dinner, Mr.Starbuck,” disappears into the cabin.When the last echo of his sultan’s step has died away, and Starbuck,the first Emir, has every reason to suppose that he is seated, thenStarbuck rouses from his quietude, takes a few turns along the planks,and, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says, with some touch ofpleasantness, “Dinner, Mr. Stubb,” and descends the scuttle. The secondEmir lounges about the rigging awhile, and then slightly shaking themain brace, to see whether it will be all right with that importantrope, he likewise takes up the old burden, and with a rapid “Dinner,Mr. Flask,” follows after his predecessors.But the third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck,seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping allsorts of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off hisshoes, he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe rightover the Grand Turk’s head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitchinghis cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking sofar at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing all otherprocessions, by bringing up the rear with music. But ere stepping intothe cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether, and,then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab’s presence,in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.It is not the least among the strange things bred by the intenseartificialness of sea-usages, that while in the open air of the decksome officers will, upon provocation, bear themselves boldly anddefyingly enough towards their commander; yet, ten to one, let thosevery officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in thatsame commander’s cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not to saydeprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of thetable; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Wherefore thisdifference? A problem? Perhaps not. To have been Belshazzar, King ofBabylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur. But hewho in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his ownprivate dinner-table of invited guests, that man’s unchallenged powerand dominion of individual influence for the time; that man’s royaltyof state transcends Belshazzar’s, for Belshazzar was not the greatest.Who has but once dined his friends, has tasted what it is to be Cæsar.It is a witchery of social czarship which there is no withstanding.Now, if to this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of aship-master, then, by inference, you will derive the cause of thatpeculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lionon the white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but stilldeferential cubs. In his own proper turn, each officer waited to beserved. They were as little children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab,there seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance. With one mind,their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man’s knife, as he carvedthe chief dish before him. I do not suppose that for the world theywould have profaned that moment with the slightest observation, evenupon so neutral a topic as the weather. No! And when reaching out hisknife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked, Ahabthereby motioned Starbuck’s plate towards him, the mate received hismeat as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a littlestarted if, perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewedit noiselessly; and swallowed it, not without circumspection. For, likethe Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperorprofoundly dines with the seven Imperial Electors, so these cabin mealswere somehow solemn meals, eaten in awful silence; and yet at table oldAhab forbade not conversation; only he himself was dumb. What a reliefit was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a sudden racket in the holdbelow. And poor little Flask, he was the youngest son, and little boyof this weary family party. His were the shinbones of the saline beef;his would have been the drumsticks. For Flask to have presumed to helphimself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in thefirst degree. Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, nevermore would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world;nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flaskhelped himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.Least of all, did Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whether hethought the owners of the ship denied it to him, on account of itsclotting his clear, sunny complexion; or whether he deemed that, on solong a voyage in such marketless waters, butter was at a premium, andtherefore was not for him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas!was a butterless man!Another thing. Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flaskis the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask’s dinner was badlyjammed in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him;and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If Stubbeven, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a smallappetite, and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flaskmust bestir himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls thatday; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to thedeck. Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private, that eversince he had arisen to the dignity of an officer, from that moment hehad never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry, more or less.For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger, as keep it immortalin him. Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departedfrom my stomach. I am an officer; but, how I wish I could fish a bit ofold-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to when I was beforethe mast. There’s the fruits of promotion now; there’s the vanity ofglory: there’s the insanity of life! Besides, if it were so that anymere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask’sofficial capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain amplevengeance, was to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flaskthrough the cabin sky-light, sitting silly and dumfoundered beforeawful Ahab.Now, Ahab and his three mates formed what may be called the first tablein the Pequod’s cabin. After their departure, taking place in invertedorder to their arrival, the canvas cloth was cleared, or rather wasrestored to some hurried order by the pallid steward. And then thethree harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being its residuarylegatees. They made a sort of temporary servants’ hall of the high andmighty cabin.In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint and namelessinvisible domineerings of the captain’s table, was the entire care-freelicense and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferiorfellows the harpooneers. While their masters, the mates, seemed afraidof the sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewedtheir food with such a relish that there was a report to it. They dinedlike lords; they filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loadingwith spices. Such portentous appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, thatto fill out the vacancies made by the previous repast, often the paleDough-Boy was fain to bring on a great baron of salt-junk, seeminglyquarried out of the solid ox. And if he were not lively about it, if hedid not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then Tashtego had anungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his back,harpoon-wise. And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assistedDough-Boy’s memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his headinto a great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand,began laying out the circle preliminary to scalping him. He wasnaturally a very nervous, shuddering sort of little fellow, thisbread-faced steward; the progeny of a bankrupt baker and a hospitalnurse. And what with the standing spectacle of the black terrific Ahab,and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these three savages,Dough-Boy’s whole life was one continual lip-quiver. Commonly, afterseeing the harpooneers furnished with all things they demanded, hewould escape from their clutches into his little pantry adjoining, andfearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door, till all wasover.It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposinghis filed teeth to the Indian’s: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated onthe floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to thelow carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the lowcabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger ina ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious,not to say dainty. It seemed hardly possible that by such comparativelysmall mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through sobroad, baronial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savagefed strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and throughhis dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not bybeef or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had amortal, barbaric smack of the lip in eating—an ugly sound enough—somuch so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether anymarks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms. And when he would hearTashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones mightbe picked, the simple-witted steward all but shattered the crockeryhanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy. Nordid the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, fortheir lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound didnot at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy. How could he forgetthat in his Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have beenguilty of some murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy!hard fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkinshould he carry on his arm, but a buckler. In good time, though, to hisgreat delight, the three salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; tohis credulous, fable-mongering ears, all their martial bones jinglingin them at every step, like Moorish scimetars in scabbards.But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and nominally livedthere; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits, they werescarcely ever in it except at mealtimes, and just before sleeping-time,when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whalecaptains, who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rightsthe ship’s cabin belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone thatanybody else is, at any time, permitted there. So that, in real truth,the mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might more properly be said tohave lived out of the cabin than in it. For when they did enter it, itwas something as a street-door enters a house; turning inwards for amoment, only to be turned out the next; and, as a permanent thing,residing in the open air. Nor did they lose much hereby; in the cabinwas no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible. Though nominallyincluded in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it. Helived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settledMissouri. And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Loganof the woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out thewinter there, sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling oldage, Ahab’s soul, shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fedupon the sullen paws of its gloom!CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head.It was during the more pleasant weather, that in due rotation with theother seamen my first mast-head came round.In most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almostsimultaneously with the vessel’s leaving her port; even though she mayhave fifteen thousand miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her propercruising ground. And if, after a three, four, or five years’ voyage sheis drawing nigh home with anything empty in her—say, an empty vialeven—then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till herskysail-poles sail in among the spires of the port, does she altogetherrelinquish the hope of capturing one whale more.Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is avery ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiatehere. I take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the oldEgyptians; because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, bytheir tower, have intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia,or Africa either; yet (ere the final truck was put to it) as that greatstone mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in thedread gale of God’s wrath; therefore, we cannot give these Babelbuilders priority over the Egyptians. And that the Egyptians were anation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the generalbelief among archæologists, that the first pyramids were founded forastronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiarstair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, withprodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers werewont to mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as thelook-outs of a modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearingin sight. In Saint Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times,who built him a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spent the wholelatter portion of his life on its summit, hoisting his food from theground with a tackle; in him we have a remarkable instance of adauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who was not to be driven from hisplace by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet; but valiantly facingeverything out to the last, literally died at his post. Of modernstanders-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone, iron,and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale,are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upondiscovering any strange sight. There is Napoleon; who, upon the top ofthe column of Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred andfifty feet in the air; careless, now, who rules the decks below;whether Louis Philippe, Louis Blanc, or Louis the Devil. GreatWashington, too, stands high aloft on his towering main-mast inBaltimore, and like one of Hercules’ pillars, his column marks thatpoint of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go. AdmiralNelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head inTrafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke,token is yet given that a hidden hero is there; for where there issmoke, must be fire. But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, norNelson, will answer a single hail from below, however madly invoked tobefriend by their counsels the distracted decks upon which they gaze;however it may be surmised, that their spirits penetrate through thethick haze of the future, and descry what shoals and what rocks must beshunned.It may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast-headstanders of the land with those of the sea; but that in truth it is notso, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy, the solehistorian of Nantucket, stands accountable. The worthy Obed tells us,that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were regularlylaunched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erectedlofty spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended bymeans of nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house.A few years ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of NewZealand, who, upon descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-mannedboats nigh the beach. But this custom has now become obsolete; turn wethen to the one proper mast-head, that of a whale-ship at sea. Thethree mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the seamentaking their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each otherevery two hours. In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedinglypleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it isdelightful. There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks,striding along the deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, whilebeneath you and between your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monstersof the sea, even as ships once sailed between the boots of the famousColossus at old Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series ofthe sea, with nothing ruffled but the waves. The tranced shipindolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves youinto languor. For the most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublimeuneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read no gazettes; extraswith startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you intounnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankruptsecurities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of whatyou shall have for dinner—for all your meals for three years and moreare snugly stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.In one of those southern whalesmen, on a long three or four years’voyage, as often happens, the sum of the various hours you spend at themast-head would amount to several entire months. And it is much to bedeplored that the place to which you devote so considerable a portionof the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly destitute ofanything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted to breed acomfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a hammock,a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those smalland snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves. Yourmost usual point of perch is the head of the t’ gallant-mast, where youstand upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen)called the t’ gallant cross-trees. Here, tossed about by the sea, thebeginner feels about as cosy as he would standing on a bull’s horns. Tobe sure, in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you, inthe shape of a watch-coat; but properly speaking the thickestwatch-coat is no more of a house than the unclad body; for as the soulis glued inside of its fleshy tabernacle, and cannot freely move aboutin it, nor even move out of it, without running great risk of perishing(like an ignorant pilgrim crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so awatch-coat is not so much of a house as it is a mere envelope, oradditional skin encasing you. You cannot put a shelf or chest ofdrawers in your body, and no more can you make a convenient closet ofyour watch-coat.Concerning all this, it is much to be deplored that the mast-heads of asouthern whale ship are unprovided with those enviable little tents orpulpits, called crow’s-nests, in which the look-outs of a Greenlandwhaler are protected from the inclement weather of the frozen seas. Inthe fireside narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled “A Voyage among theIcebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally for there-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland;” in thisadmirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with acharmingly circumstantial account of the then recently inventedcrow’s-nest of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet’sgood craft. He called it the Sleet’s crow’s-nest, in honor ofhimself; he being the original inventor and patentee, and free from allridiculous false delicacy, and holding that if we call our own childrenafter our own names (we fathers being the original inventors andpatentees), so likewise should we denominate after ourselves any otherapparatus we may beget. In shape, the Sleet’s crow’s-nest is somethinglike a large tierce or pipe; it is open above, however, where it isfurnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward of your headin a hard gale. Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you ascend intoit through a little trap-hatch in the bottom. On the after side, orside next the stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a lockerunderneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats. In front is a leatherrack, in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, andother nautical conveniences. When Captain Sleet in person stood hismast-head in this crow’s-nest of his, he tells us that he always had arifle with him (also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flaskand shot, for the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales, orvagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for you cannotsuccessfully shoot at them from the deck owing to the resistance of thewater, but to shoot down upon them is a very different thing. Now, itwas plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does,all the little detailed conveniences of his crow’s-nest; but though heso enlarges upon many of these, and though he treats us to a veryscientific account of his experiments in this crow’s-nest, with a smallcompass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the errorsresulting from what is called the “local attraction” of all binnaclemagnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron inthe ship’s planks, and in the Glacier’s case, perhaps, to there havingbeen so many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that thoughthe Captain is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all hislearned “binnacle deviations,” “azimuth compass observations,” and“approximate errors,” he knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he wasnot so much immersed in those profound magnetic meditations, as to failbeing attracted occasionally towards that well replenished littlecase-bottle, so nicely tucked in on one side of his crow’s nest, withineasy reach of his hand. Though, upon the whole, I greatly admire andeven love the brave, the honest, and learned Captain; yet I take itvery ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle,seeing what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, whilewith mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematicsaloft there in that bird’s nest within three or four perches of thepole.But if we Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft asCaptain Sleet and his Greenlandmen were; yet that disadvantage isgreatly counter-balanced by the widely contrasting serenity of thoseseductive seas in which we South fishers mostly float. For one, I usedto lounge up the rigging very leisurely, resting in the top to have achat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom I might find there;then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy leg over thetop-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures, and soat last mount to my ultimate destination.Let me make a clean breast of it here, and frankly admit that I keptbut sorry guard. With the problem of the universe revolving in me, howcould I—being left completely to myself at such a thought-engenderingaltitude—how could I but lightly hold my obligations to observe allwhale-ships’ standing orders, “Keep your weather eye open, and sing outevery time.”And let me in this place movingly admonish you, ye ship-owners ofNantucket! Beware of enlisting in your vigilant fisheries any lad withlean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable meditativeness; and whooffers to ship with the Phædon instead of Bowditch in his head. Bewareof such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before they can bekilled; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten wakesround the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer. Norare these monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, the whale-fisheryfurnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-mindedyoung men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seekingsentiment in tar and blubber. Childe Harold not unfrequently percheshimself upon the mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship,and in moody phrase ejaculates:—“Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll! Ten thousandblubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain.”Very often do the captains of such ships take those absent-minded youngphilosophers to task, upbraiding them with not feeling sufficient“interest” in the voyage; half-hinting that they are so hopelessly lostto all honorable ambition, as that in their secret souls they wouldrather not see whales than otherwise. But all in vain; those youngPlatonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they areshort-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve? They haveleft their opera-glasses at home.“Why, thou monkey,” said a harpooneer to one of these lads, “we’ve beencruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whaleyet. Whales are scarce as hen’s teeth whenever thou art up here.”Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them inthe far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness ofvacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blendingcadence of waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity;takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep,blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every strange,half-seen, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him; everydimly-discovered, uprising fin of some undiscernible form, seems to himthe embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul bycontinually flitting through it. In this enchanted mood, thy spiritebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time and space;like Cranmer’s sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a part ofevery shore the round globe over.There is no life in thee, now, except that rocking life imparted by agently rolling ship; by her, borrowed from the sea; by the sea, fromthe inscrutable tides of God. But while this sleep, this dream is onye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold at all; and youridentity comes back in horror. Over Descartian vortices you hover. Andperhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one half-throttledshriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer sea, nomore to rise for ever. Heed it well, ye Pantheists!CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck.(Enter Ahab: Then, all.)It was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morningshortly after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended thecabin-gangway to the deck. There most sea-captains usually walk at thathour, as country gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns inthe garden.Soon his steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his oldrounds, upon planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all overdented, like geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk. Didyou fixedly gaze, too, upon that ribbed and dented brow; there also,you would see still stranger foot-prints—the foot-prints of his oneunsleeping, ever-pacing thought.But on the occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as hisnervous step that morning left a deeper mark. And, so full of histhought was Ahab, that at every uniform turn that he made, now at themain-mast and now at the binnacle, you could almost see that thoughtturn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he paced; so completelypossessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the inward mould ofevery outer movement.“D’ye mark him, Flask?” whispered Stubb; “the chick that’s in him pecksthe shell. ’Twill soon be out.”The hours wore on;—Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing thedeck, with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.It drew near the close of day. Suddenly he came to a halt by thebulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into the auger-hole there, andwith one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck to send everybodyaft.“Sir!” said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or never given onship-board except in some extraordinary case.“Send everybody aft,” repeated Ahab. “Mast-heads, there! come down!”When the entire ship’s company were assembled, and with curious and notwholly unapprehensive faces, were eyeing him, for he looked not unlikethe weather horizon when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidlyglancing over the bulwarks, and then darting his eyes among the crew,started from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh himresumed his heavy turns upon the deck. With bent head and half-slouchedhat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering amongthe men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must havesummoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.But this did not last long. Vehemently pausing, he cried:—“What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?”“Sing out for him!” was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbedvoices.“Good!” cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing thehearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magneticallythrown them.“And what do ye next, men?”“Lower away, and after him!”“And what tune is it ye pull to, men?”“A dead whale or a stove boat!”More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew thecountenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began togaze curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that theythemselves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions.But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in hispivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud, and tightly,almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus:—“All ye mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a whitewhale. Look ye! d’ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?”—holding up abroad bright coin to the sun—“it is a sixteen dollar piece, men. D’yesee it? Mr. Starbuck, hand me yon top-maul.”While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without speaking, wasslowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket, as ifto heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowlyhumming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled andinarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of hisvitality in him.Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mastwith the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with theother, and with a high raised voice exclaiming: “Whosoever of ye raisesme a white-headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw;whosoever of ye raises me that white-headed whale, with three holespunctured in his starboard fluke—look ye, whosoever of ye raises methat same white whale, he shall have this gold ounce, my boys!”“Huzza! huzza!” cried the seamen, as with swinging tarpaulins theyhailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.“It’s a white whale, I say,” resumed Ahab, as he threw down thetopmaul: “a white whale. Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp forwhite water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.”All this while Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with evenmore intense interest and surprise than the rest, and at the mention ofthe wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each wasseparately touched by some specific recollection.“Captain Ahab,” said Tashtego, “that white whale must be the same thatsome call Moby Dick.”“Moby Dick?” shouted Ahab. “Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?”“Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?” said theGay-Header deliberately.“And has he a curious spout, too,” said Daggoo, “very bushy, even for aparmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?”“And he have one, two, three—oh! good many iron in him hide, too,Captain,” cried Queequeg disjointedly, “all twiske-tee be-twisk, likehim—him—” faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round andround as though uncorking a bottle—“like him—him—”“Corkscrew!” cried Ahab, “aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twistedand wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one, like a wholeshock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after thegreat annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails like asplit jib in a squall. Death and devils! men, it is Moby Dick ye haveseen—Moby Dick—Moby Dick!”“Captain Ahab,” said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus farbeen eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemedstruck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. “CaptainAhab, I have heard of Moby Dick—but it was not Moby Dick that took offthy leg?”“Who told thee that?” cried Ahab; then pausing, “Aye, Starbuck; aye, myhearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick thatbrought me to this dead stump I stand on now. Aye, aye,” he shoutedwith a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose;“Aye, aye! it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a poorpegging lubber of me for ever and a day!” Then tossing both arms, withmeasureless imprecations he shouted out: “Aye, aye! and I’ll chase himround Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom,and round perdition’s flames before I give him up. And this is what yehave shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land,and over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls finout. What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye dolook brave.”“Aye, aye!” shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to theexcited old man: “A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance forMoby Dick!”“God bless ye,” he seemed to half sob and half shout. “God bless ye,men. Steward! go draw the great measure of grog. But what’s this longface about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale? art notgame for Moby Dick?”“I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, CaptainAhab, if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow; but Icame here to hunt whales, not my commander’s vengeance. How manybarrels will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, CaptainAhab? it will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market.”“Nantucket market! Hoot! But come closer, Starbuck; thou requirest alittle lower layer. If money’s to be the measurer, man, and theaccountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, bygirdling it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then,let me tell thee, that my vengeance will fetch a great premium here!”“He smites his chest,” whispered Stubb, “what’s that for? methinks itrings most vast, but hollow.”“Vengeance on a dumb brute!” cried Starbuck, “that simply smote theefrom blindest instinct! Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing,Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous.”“Hark ye yet again—the little lower layer. All visible objects, man,are but as pasteboard masks. But in each event—in the living act, theundoubted deed—there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forththe mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If manwill strike, strike through the mask! How can the prisoner reachoutside except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale isthat wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think there’s naught beyond.But ’tis enough. He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageousstrength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it. That inscrutablething is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent, or be thewhite whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him. Talk not to meof blasphemy, man; I’d strike the sun if it insulted me. For could thesun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort offair play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations. But not mymaster, man, is even that fair play. Who’s over me? Truth hath noconfines. Take off thine eye! more intolerable than fiends’ glarings isa doltish stare! So, so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has meltedthee to anger-glow. But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, thatthing unsays itself. There are men from whom warm words are smallindignity. I meant not to incense thee. Let it go. Look! see yonderTurkish cheeks of spotted tawn—living, breathing pictures painted bythe sun. The Pagan leopards—the unrecking and unworshipping things,that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel!The crew, man, the crew! Are they not one and all with Ahab, in thismatter of the whale? See Stubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! hesnorts to think of it. Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy onetost sapling cannot, Starbuck! And what is it? Reckon it. ’Tis but tohelp strike a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? Fromthis one poor hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surelyhe will not hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched awhetstone? Ah! constrainings seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee!Speak, but speak!—Aye, aye! thy silence, then, that voices thee.(Aside) Something shot from my dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it inhis lungs. Starbuck now is mine; cannot oppose me now, withoutrebellion.”“God keep me!—keep us all!” murmured Starbuck, lowly.But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahabdid not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from thehold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage; noryet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a momenttheir hearts sank in. For again Starbuck’s downcast eyes lighted upwith the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; thewinds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled asbefore. Ah, ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come?But rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows! Yet not somuch predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing thingswithin. For with little external to constrain us, the innermostnecessities in our being, these still drive us on.“The measure! the measure!” cried Ahab.Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, heordered them to produce their weapons. Then ranging them before himnear the capstan, with their harpoons in their hands, while his threemates stood at his side with their lances, and the rest of the ship’scompany formed a circle round the group; he stood for an instantsearchingly eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his,as the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of theirleader, ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of the bison; but,alas! only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.“Drink and pass!” he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to thenearest seaman. “The crew alone now drink. Round with it, round! Shortdraughts—long swallows, men; ’tis hot as Satan’s hoof. So, so; it goesround excellently. It spiralizes in ye; forks out at theserpent-snapping eye. Well done; almost drained. That way it went, thisway it comes. Hand it me—here’s a hollow! Men, ye seem the years; sobrimming life is gulped and gone. Steward, refill!“Attend now, my braves. I have mustered ye all round this capstan; andye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers, stand therewith your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may in somesort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me. O men,you will yet see that—Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner.Hand it me. Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer’t notthou St. Vitus’ imp—away, thou ague!“Advance, ye mates! Cross your lances full before me. Well done! Let metouch the axis.” So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the threelevel, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing,suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently fromStarbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask. It seemed as though, by somenameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them thesame fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his ownmagnetic life. The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained,and mystic aspect. Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honesteye of Starbuck fell downright.“In vain!” cried Ahab; “but, maybe, ’tis well. For did ye three butonce take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, thathad perhaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have droppedye dead. Perchance ye need it not. Down lances! And now, ye mates, I doappoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there—yon threemost honorable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdainthe task? What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, usinghis tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension,that shall bend ye to it. I do not order ye; ye will it. Cut yourseizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!”Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with thedetached iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbsup, before him.“Stab me not with that keen steel! Cant them; cant them over! know yenot the goblet end? Turn up the socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers,advance. The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!” Forthwith,slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoonsockets with the fiery waters from the pewter.“Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend the murderous chalices! Bestowthem, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. Ha!Starbuck! but the deed is done! Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit uponit. Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man thedeathful whaleboat’s bow—Death to Moby Dick! God hunt us all, if we donot hunt Moby Dick to his death!” The long, barbed steel goblets werelifted; and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, thespirits were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss. Starbuck paled,and turned, and shivered. Once more, and finally, the replenishedpewter went the rounds among the frantic crew; when, waving his freehand to them, they all dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.CHAPTER 37. Sunset.The cabin; by the stern windows; Ahab sitting alone, and gazing out.I leave a white and turbid wake; pale waters, paler cheeks, where’er Isail. The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let them;but first I pass.Yonder, by ever-brimming goblet’s rim, the warm waves blush like wine.The gold brow plumbs the blue. The diver sun—slow dived from noon—goesdown; my soul mounts up! she wearies with her endless hill. Is, then,the crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy. Yet is itbright with many a gem; I the wearer, see not its far flashings; butdarkly feel that I wear that, that dazzlingly confounds. ’Tis iron—thatI know—not gold. ’Tis split, too—that I feel; the jagged edge galls meso, my brain seems to beat against the solid metal; aye, steel skull,mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight!Dry heat upon my brow? Oh! time was, when as the sunrise nobly spurredme, so the sunset soothed. No more. This lovely light, it lights notme; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne’er enjoy. Giftedwith the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power; damned, mostsubtly and most malignantly! damned in the midst of Paradise! Goodnight—good night! (waving his hand, he moves from the window.)’Twas not so hard a task. I thought to find one stubborn, at the least;but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and theyrevolve. Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they allstand before me; and I their match. Oh, hard! that to fire others, thematch itself must needs be wasting! What I’ve dared, I’ve willed; andwhat I’ve willed, I’ll do! They think me mad—Starbuck does; but I’mdemoniac, I am madness maddened! That wild madness that’s only calm tocomprehend itself! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered;and—Aye! I lost this leg. I now prophesy that I will dismember mydismemberer. Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one. That’smore than ye, ye great gods, ever were. I laugh and hoot at ye, yecricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes! Iwill not say as schoolboys do to bullies—Take some one of your ownsize; don’t pommel me! No, ye’ve knocked me down, and I am up again;but ye have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags!I have no long gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab’s compliments to ye; comeand see if ye can swerve me. Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else yeswerve yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixedpurpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, undertorrents’ beds, unerringly I rush! Naught’s an obstacle, naught’s anangle to the iron way!CHAPTER 38. Dusk.By the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning against it.My soul is more than matched; she’s overmanned; and by a madman!Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field! Buthe drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! I think Isee his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I, nillI, the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I haveno knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who’s over him, he cries;—aye, hewould be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below!Oh! I plainly see my miserable office,—to obey, rebelling; and worseyet, to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woewould shrivel me up, had I it. Yet is there hope. Time and tide flowwide. The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as thesmall gold-fish has its glassy globe. His heaven-insulting purpose, Godmay wedge aside. I would up heart, were it not like lead. But my wholeclock’s run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key tolift again.[A burst of revelry from the forecastle.]Oh, God! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch ofhuman mothers in them! Whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea. The whitewhale is their demigorgon. Hark! the infernal orgies! that revelry isforward! mark the unfaltering silence aft! Methinks it pictures life.Foremost through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay, embattled,bantering bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where he broodswithin his sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the wake,and further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings. The long howl thrillsme through! Peace! ye revellers, and set the watch! Oh, life! ’tis inan hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge,—as wild,untutored things are forced to feed—Oh, life! ’tis now that I do feelthe latent horror in thee! but ’tis not me! that horror’s out of me!and with the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fightye, ye grim, phantom futures! Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O yeblessed influences!CHAPTER 39. First Night-Watch.Fore-Top.(Stubb solus, and mending a brace.)Ha! ha! ha! ha! hem! clear my throat!—I’ve been thinking over it eversince, and that ha, ha’s the final consequence. Why so? Because alaugh’s the wisest, easiest answer to all that’s queer; and come whatwill, one comfort’s always left—that unfailing comfort is, it’s allpredestinated. I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my pooreye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt. Be surethe old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had thegift, might readily have prophesied it—for when I clapped my eye uponhis skull I saw it. Well, Stubb, wise Stubb—that’s my title—well,Stubb, what of it, Stubb? Here’s a carcase. I know not all that may becoming, but be it what it will, I’ll go to it laughing. Such a waggishleering as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny. Fa, la! lirra,skirra! What’s my juicy little pear at home doing now? Crying its eyesout?—Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay asa frigate’s pennant, and so am I—fa, la! lirra, skirra! Oh—We’ll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as gay and fleetingAs bubbles that swim, on the beaker’s brim, And break on the lips whilemeeting.A brave stave that—who calls? Mr. Starbuck? Aye, aye, sir—(Aside)he’s my superior, he has his too, if I’m not mistaken.—Aye, aye, sir,just through with this job—coming.CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.HARPOONEERS AND SAILORS.(Foresail rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning,and lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus.) Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies! Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain! Our captain’s commanded.—1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don’t be sentimental; it’s bad for thedigestion! Take a tonic, follow me!(Sings, and all follow.) Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A viewing of those gallant whales That blew at every strand. Oh, your tubs in your boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we’ll have one of those fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand! So, be cheery, my lads! may your hearts never fail! While the bold harpooner is striking the whale!MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Eight bells there, forward!2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR. Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d’ye hear,bell-boy? Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let mecall the watch. I’ve the sort of mouth for that—the hogshead mouth. So,so, (thrusts his head down the scuttle,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!Eight bells there below! Tumble up!DUTCH SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I markthis in our old Mogul’s wine; it’s quite as deadening to some asfilliping to others. We sing; they sleep—aye, lie down there, likeground-tier butts. At ’em again! There, take this copper-pump, and hail’em through it. Tell ’em to avast dreaming of their lasses. Tell ’emit’s the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.That’s the way—that’s it; thy throat ain’t spoiled with eatingAmsterdam butter.FRENCH SAILOR. Hist, boys! let’s have a jig or two before we ride toanchor in Blanket Bay. What say ye? There comes the other watch. Standby all legs! Pip! little Pip! hurrah with your tambourine!PIP. (Sulky and sleepy.) Don’t know where it is.FRENCH SAILOR. Beat thy belly, then, and wag thy ears. Jig it, men, Isay; merry’s the word; hurrah! Damn me, won’t you dance? Form, now,Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle? Throw yourselves!Legs! legs!ICELAND SAILOR. I don’t like your floor, maty; it’s too springy to mytaste. I’m used to ice-floors. I’m sorry to throw cold water on thesubject; but excuse me.MALTESE SAILOR. Me too; where’s your girls? Who but a fool would takehis left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d’ye do? Partners!I must have partners!SICILIAN SAILOR. Aye; girls and a green!—then I’ll hop with ye; yea,turn grasshopper!LONG-ISLAND SAILOR. Well, well, ye sulkies, there’s plenty more of us.Hoe corn when you may, say I. All legs go to harvest soon. Ah! herecomes the music; now for it!AZORE SAILOR. (Ascending, and pitching the tambourine up thescuttle.) Here you are, Pip; and there’s the windlass-bitts; up youmount! Now, boys! (The half of them dance to the tambourine; some gobelow; some sleep or lie among the coils of rigging. Oaths a-plenty.)AZORE SAILOR. (Dancing) Go it, Pip! Bang it, bell-boy! Rig it, digit, stig it, quig it, bell-boy! Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!PIP. Jinglers, you say?—there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.CHINA SAILOR. Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda ofthyself.FRENCH SAILOR. Merry-mad! Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump throughit! Split jibs! tear yourselves!TASHTEGO. (Quietly smoking.) That’s a white man; he calls that fun:humph! I save my sweat.OLD MANX SAILOR. I wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of whatthey are dancing over. I’ll dance over your grave, I will—that’s thebitterest threat of your night-women, that beat head-winds roundcorners. O Christ! to think of the green navies and the green-skulledcrews! Well, well; belike the whole world’s a ball, as you scholarshave it; and so ’tis right to make one ballroom of it. Dance on, lads,you’re young; I was once.3D NANTUCKET SAILOR. Spell oh!—whew! this is worse than pulling afterwhales in a calm—give us a whiff, Tash.(They cease dancing, and gather in clusters. Meantime the skydarkens—the wind rises.)LASCAR SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it’ll be douse sail soon. The sky-born,high-tide Ganges turned to wind! Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!MALTESE SAILOR. (Reclining and shaking his cap.) It’s the waves—thesnow’s caps turn to jig it now. They’ll shake their tassels soon. Nowwould all the waves were women, then I’d go drown, and chassee withthem evermore! There’s naught so sweet on earth—heaven may not matchit!—as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when theover-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes.SICILIAN SAILOR. (Reclining.) Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad—fleetinterlacings of the limbs—lithe swayings—coyings—flutterings! lip!heart! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye,else come satiety. Eh, Pagan? (Nudging.)TAHITAN SAILOR. (Reclining on a mat.) Hail, holy nakedness of ourdancing girls!—the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! Istill rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid! I saw thee wovenin the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now wornand wilted quite. Ah me!—not thou nor I can bear the change! How then,if so be transplanted to yon sky? Hear I the roaring streams fromPirohitee’s peak of spears, when they leap down the crags and drown thevillages?—The blast! the blast! Up, spine, and meet it! (Leaps to hisfeet.)PORTUGUESE SAILOR. How the sea rolls swashing ’gainst the side! Standby for reefing, hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mellthey’ll go lunging presently.DANISH SAILOR. Crack, crack, old ship! so long as thou crackest, thouholdest! Well done! The mate there holds ye to it stiffly. He’s no moreafraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Balticwith storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes!4TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. He has his orders, mind ye that. I heard old Ahabtell him he must always kill a squall, something as they burst awaterspout with a pistol—fire your ship right into it!ENGLISH SAILOR. Blood! but that old man’s a grand old cove! We are thelads to hunt him up his whale!ALL. Aye! aye!OLD MANX SAILOR. How the three pines shake! Pines are the hardest sortof tree to live when shifted to any other soil, and here there’s nonebut the crew’s cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is the sortof weather when brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split atsea. Our captain has his birthmark; look yonder, boys, there’s anotherin the sky—lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch black.DAGGOO. What of that? Who’s afraid of black’s afraid of me! I’mquarried out of it!SPANISH SAILOR. (Aside.) He wants to bully, ah!—the old grudge makesme touchy (Advancing.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the undeniabledark side of mankind—devilish dark at that. No offence.DAGGOO (grimly). None.ST. JAGO’S SAILOR. That Spaniard’s mad or drunk. But that can’t be, orelse in his one case our old Mogul’s fire-waters are somewhat long inworking.5TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. What’s that I saw—lightning? Yes.SPANISH SAILOR. No; Daggoo showing his teeth.DAGGOO (springing). Swallow thine, mannikin! White skin, white liver!SPANISH SAILOR (meeting him). Knife thee heartily! big frame, smallspirit!ALL. A row! a row! a row!TASHTEGO (with a whiff). A row a’low, and a row aloft—Gods andmen—both brawlers! Humph!BELFAST SAILOR. A row! arrah a row! The Virgin be blessed, a row!Plunge in with ye!ENGLISH SAILOR. Fair play! Snatch the Spaniard’s knife! A ring, a ring!OLD MANX SAILOR. Ready formed. There! the ringed horizon. In that ringCain struck Abel. Sweet work, right work! No? Why then, God, mad’stthou the ring?MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Hands by the halyards! intop-gallant sails! Stand by to reef topsails!ALL. The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (They scatter.)PIP (shrinking under the windlass). Jollies? Lord help such jollies!Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower,Pip, here comes the royal yard! It’s worse than being in the whirledwoods, the last day of the year! Who’d go climbing after chestnuts now?But there they go, all cursing, and here I don’t. Fine prospects to’em; they’re on the road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what asquall! But those chaps there are worse yet—they are your whitesqualls, they. White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have Iheard all their chat just now, and the white whale—shirr! shirr!—butspoken of once! and only this evening—it makes me jingle all over likemy tambourine—that anaconda of an old man swore ’em in to hunt him! Oh,thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy onthis small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that have nobowels to feel fear!CHAPTER 41. Moby Dick.I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest;my oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger I shouted, and moredid I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. Awild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab’s quenchless feudseemed mine. With greedy ears I learned the history of that murderousmonster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths ofviolence and revenge.For some time past, though at intervals only, the unaccompanied,secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostlyfrequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew ofhis existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seenhim; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly givenbattle to him, was small indeed. For, owing to the large number ofwhale-cruisers; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entirewatery circumference, many of them adventurously pushing their questalong solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonthor more on a stretch, to encounter a single news-telling sail of anysort; the inordinate length of each separate voyage; the irregularityof the times of sailing from home; all these, with other circumstances,direct and indirect, long obstructed the spread through the wholeworld-wide whaling-fleet of the special individualizing tidingsconcerning Moby Dick. It was hardly to be doubted, that several vesselsreported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or on such orsuch a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity,which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, hadcompletely escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfairpresumption, I say, that the whale in question must have been no otherthan Moby Dick. Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been markedby various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, andmalice in the monster attacked; therefore it was, that those who byaccident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps,for the most part, were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred,more, as it were, to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large,than to the individual cause. In that way, mostly, the disastrousencounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularlyregarded.And as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by chancecaught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had every oneof them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for anyother whale of that species. But at length, such calamities did ensuein these assaults—not restricted to sprained wrists and ankles, brokenlimbs, or devouring amputations—but fatal to the last degree offatality; those repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating andpiling their terrors upon Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shakethe fortitude of many brave hunters, to whom the story of the WhiteWhale had eventually come.Nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the morehorrify the true histories of these deadly encounters. For not only dofabulous rumors naturally grow out of the very body of all surprisingterrible events,—as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, inmaritime life, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumorsabound, wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to.And as the sea surpasses the land in this matter, so the whale fisherysurpasses every other sort of maritime life, in the wonderfulness andfearfulness of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not onlyare whalemen as a body unexempt from that ignorance andsuperstitiousness hereditary to all sailors; but of all sailors, theyare by all odds the most directly brought into contact with whatever isappallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face they not only eye itsgreatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to them. Alone, in suchremotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed athousand shores, you would not come to any chiseled hearth-stone, oraught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such latitudes andlongitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman iswrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with manya mighty birth.No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit overthe widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did inthe end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, andhalf-formed fœtal suggestions of supernatural agencies, whicheventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anythingthat visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic did he finallystrike, that few who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the WhiteWhale, few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of hisjaw.But there were still other and more vital practical influences at work.Not even at the present day has the original prestige of the SpermWhale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of theleviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body. There arethose this day among them, who, though intelligent and courageousenough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, wouldperhaps—either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, ortimidity, decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, thereare plenty of whalemen, especially among those whaling nations notsailing under the American flag, who have never hostilely encounteredthe Sperm Whale, but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan isrestricted to the ignoble monster primitively pursued in the North;seated on their hatches, these men will hearken with a childishfireside interest and awe, to the wild, strange tales of Southernwhaling. Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm Whaleanywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prowswhich stem him.And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former legendarytimes thrown its shadow before it; we find some booknaturalists—Olassen and Povelson—declaring the Sperm Whale not only tobe a consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to beso incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood.Nor even down to so late a time as Cuvier’s, were these or almostsimilar impressions effaced. For in his Natural History, the Baronhimself affirms that at sight of the Sperm Whale, all fish (sharksincluded) are “struck with the most lively terrors,” and “often in theprecipitancy of their flight dash themselves against the rocks withsuch violence as to cause instantaneous death.” And however the generalexperiences in the fishery may amend such reports as these; yet intheir full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of Povelson, thesuperstitious belief in them is, in some vicissitudes of theirvocation, revived in the minds of the hunters.So that overawed by the rumors and portents concerning him, not a fewof the fishermen recalled, in reference to Moby Dick, the earlier daysof the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was oftentimes hard to induce longpractised Right whalemen to embark in the perils of this new and daringwarfare; such men protesting that although other leviathans might behopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at such an apparitionas the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would beinevitably to be torn into a quick eternity. On this head, there aresome remarkable documents that may be consulted.Nevertheless, some there were, who even in the face of these thingswere ready to give chase to Moby Dick; and a still greater number who,chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without thespecific details of any certain calamity, and without superstitiousaccompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle ifoffered.One of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linkedwith the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined, wasthe unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous; that he hadactually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the sameinstant of time.Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, was this conceitaltogether without some faint show of superstitious probability. For asthe secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged,even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the SpermWhale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable tohis pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curiousand contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerningthe mystic modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, hetransports himself with such vast swiftness to the most widely distantpoints.It is a thing well known to both American and English whale-ships, andas well a thing placed upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby,that some whales have been captured far north in the Pacific, in whosebodies have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in the Greenlandseas. Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in some of these instances it hasbeen declared that the interval of time between the two assaults couldnot have exceeded very many days. Hence, by inference, it has beenbelieved by some whalemen, that the Nor’ West Passage, so long aproblem to man, was never a problem to the whale. So that here, in thereal living experience of living men, the prodigies related in oldtimes of the inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top therewas said to be a lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to thesurface); and that still more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountainnear Syracuse (whose waters were believed to have come from the HolyLand by an underground passage); these fabulous narrations are almostfully equalled by the realities of the whalemen.Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; andknowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale hadescaped alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemenshould go still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick notonly ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity intime); that though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks, hewould still swim away unharmed; or if indeed he should ever be made tospout thick blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; foragain in unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsulliedjet would once more be seen.But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was enough inthe earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to strikethe imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much hisuncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales,but, as was elsewhere thrown out—a peculiar snow-white wrinkledforehead, and a high, pyramidical white hump. These were his prominentfeatures; the tokens whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, herevealed his identity, at a long distance, to those who knew him.The rest of his body was so streaked, and spotted, and marbled with thesame shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had gained his distinctiveappellation of the White Whale; a name, indeed, literally justified byhis vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark bluesea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all spangled with goldengleamings.Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his remarkable hue, nor yet hisdeformed lower jaw, that so much invested the whale with naturalterror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, according tospecific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his assaults.More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay thanperhaps aught else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers,with every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been knownto turn round suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave theirboats to splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.Already several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similardisasters, however little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual inthe fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White Whale’sinfernal aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or deaththat he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by anunintelligent agent.Judge, then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury the minds ofhis more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of chewedboats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of thewhite curds of the whale’s direful wrath into the serene, exasperatingsunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.His three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whirling in theeddies; one captain, seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, haddashed at the whale, as an Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindlyseeking with a six inch blade to reach the fathom-deep life of thewhale. That captain was Ahab. And then it was, that suddenly sweepinghis sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had reaped awayAhab’s leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field. No turbaned Turk,no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seemingmalice. Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since thatalmost fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictivenessagainst the whale, all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidnesshe at last came to identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, butall his intellectual and spiritual exasperations. The White Whale swambefore him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those maliciousagencies which some deep men feel eating in them, till they are leftliving on with half a heart and half a lung. That intangible malignitywhich has been from the beginning; to whose dominion even the modernChristians ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient Ophites ofthe east reverenced in their statue devil;—Ahab did not fall down andworship it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to theabhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it. Allthat most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things;all truth with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes thebrain; all the subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazyAhab, were visibly personified, and made practically assailable in MobyDick. He piled upon the whale’s white hump the sum of all the generalrage and hate felt by his whole race from Adam down; and then, as ifhis chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart’s shell upon it.It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise atthe precise time of his bodily dismemberment. Then, in darting at themonster, knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate,corporal animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, heprobably but felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.Yet, when by this collision forced to turn towards home, and for longmonths of days and weeks, Ahab and anguish lay stretched together inone hammock, rounding in mid winter that dreary, howling PatagonianCape; then it was, that his torn body and gashed soul bled into oneanother; and so interfusing, made him mad. That it was only then, onthe homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomaniaseized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at intervalsduring the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed of aleg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and wasmoreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced tolace him fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In astrait-jacket, he swung to the mad rockings of the gales. And, whenrunning into more sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun’sailsspread, floated across the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances,the old man’s delirium seemed left behind him with the Cape Hornswells, and he came forth from his dark den into the blessed light andair; even then, when he bore that firm, collected front, however pale,and issued his calm orders once again; and his mates thanked God thedireful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in his hidden self,raved on. Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most feline thing.When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured into somestill subtler form. Ahab’s full lunacy subsided not, but deepeninglycontracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman flowsnarrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge. But, as in hisnarrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab’s broad madness had beenleft behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great naturalintellect had perished. That before living agent, now became the livinginstrument. If such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacystormed his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all itsconcentred cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having losthis strength, Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand foldmore potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon any onereasonable object.This is much; yet Ahab’s larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.But vain to popularize profundities, and all truth is profound. Windingfar down from within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny wherewe here stand—however grand and wonderful, now quit it;—and take yourway, ye nobler, sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes;where far beneath the fantastic towers of man’s upper earth, his rootof grandeur, his whole awful essence sits in bearded state; an antiqueburied beneath antiquities, and throned on torsoes! So with a brokenthrone, the great gods mock that captive king; so like a Caryatid, hepatient sits, upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures ofages. Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder souls! question thatproud, sad king! A family likeness! aye, he did beget ye, ye youngexiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will the oldState-secret come.Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely: all my meansare sane, my motive and my object mad. Yet without power to kill, orchange, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did longdissemble; in some sort, did still. But that thing of his dissemblingwas only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will determinate.Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that whenwith ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought himotherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with theterrible casualty which had overtaken him.The report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularlyascribed to a kindred cause. And so too, all the added moodiness whichalways afterwards, to the very day of sailing in the Pequod on thepresent voyage, sat brooding on his brow. Nor is it so very unlikely,that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling voyage, onaccount of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that prudentisle were inclined to harbor the conceit, that for those very reasonshe was all the better qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so fullof rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within andscorched without, with the infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurableidea; such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to darthis iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brutes.Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that,yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl onhis underlings to the attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is,that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed inhim, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the oneonly and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any oneof his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurkingin him then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls havewrenched the ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent onprofitable cruises, the profit to be counted down in dollars from themint. He was intent on an audacious, immitigable, and supernaturalrevenge.Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with cursesa Job’s whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too, chiefly madeup of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals—morally enfeebledalso, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness inStarbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference and recklessness inStubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew, soofficered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatalityto help him to his monomaniac revenge. How it was that they soaboundingly responded to the old man’s ire—by what evil magic theirsouls were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; theWhite Whale as much their insufferable foe as his; how all this came tobe—what the White Whale was to them, or how to their unconsciousunderstandings, also, in some dim, unsuspected way, he might haveseemed the gliding great demon of the seas of life,—all this toexplain, would be to dive deeper than Ishmael can go. The subterraneanminer that works in us all, how can one tell whither leads his shaft bythe ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick? Who does not feel theirresistible arm drag? What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can standstill? For one, I gave myself up to the abandonment of the time and theplace; but while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could seenaught in that brute but the deadliest ill.CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of the Whale.What the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, hewas to me, as yet remains unsaid.Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, whichcould not but occasionally awaken in any man’s soul some alarm, therewas another thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him,which at times by its intensity completely overpowered all the rest;and yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable was it, that I almostdespair of putting it in a comprehensible form. It was the whiteness ofthe whale that above all things appalled me. But how can I hope toexplain myself here; and yet, in some dim, random way, explain myself Imust, else all these chapters might be naught.Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty,as if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles,japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some wayrecognised a certain royal preeminence in this hue; even the barbaric,grand old kings of Pegu placing the title “Lord of the White Elephants”above all their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and themodern kings of Siam unfurling the same snow-white quadruped in theroyal standard; and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of asnow-white charger; and the great Austrian Empire, Cæsarian, heir tooverlording Rome, having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue;and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself,giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe; andthough, besides, all this, whiteness has been even made significant ofgladness, for among the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; andthough in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue ismade the emblem of many touching, noble things—the innocence of brides,the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving ofthe white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though inmany climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine ofthe Judge, and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawnby milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the mostaugust religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessnessand power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flamebeing held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies,Great Jove himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; andthough to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacredWhite Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology, thatspotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could sendto the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; andthough directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priestsderive the name of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic,worn beneath the cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romishfaith, white is specially employed in the celebration of the Passion ofour Lord; though in the Vision of St. John, white robes are given tothe redeemed, and the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in whitebefore the great white throne, and the Holy One that sitteth therewhite like wool; yet for all these accumulated associations, withwhatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime, there yet lurks anelusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which strikes moreof panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood.This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, whendivorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any objectterrible in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.Witness the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of thetropics; what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them thetranscendent horrors they are? That ghastly whiteness it is whichimparts such an abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific,to the dumb gloating of their aspect. So that not the fierce-fangedtiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white-shroudedbear or shark.**With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him whowould fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not thewhiteness, separately regarded, which heightens the intolerablehideousness of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness,it might be said, only rises from the circumstance, that theirresponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invested in thefleece of celestial innocence and love; and hence, by bringing togethertwo such opposite emotions in our minds, the Polar bear frightens uswith so unnatural a contrast. But even assuming all this to be true;yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have that intensifiedterror.As for the white shark, the white gliding ghostliness of repose in thatcreature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies with thesame quality in the Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is most vividlyhit by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish. The Romishmass for the dead begins with “Requiem eternam” (eternal rest), whenceRequiem denominating the mass itself, and any other funeral music.Now, in allusion to the white, silent stillness of death in this shark,and the mild deadliness of his habits, the French call him Requin.Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritualwonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in allimaginations? Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God’s great,unflattering laureate, Nature.**I remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolongedgale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watchbelow, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon themain hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, andwith a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth itsvast archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrousflutterings and throbbings shook it. Though bodily unharmed, it utteredcries, as some king’s ghost in supernatural distress. Through itsinexpressible, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which tookhold of God. As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the whitething was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiledwaters, I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and oftowns. Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can onlyhint, the things that darted through me then. But at last I awoke; andturning, asked a sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney!never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this gloriousthing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, Ilearned that goney was some seaman’s name for albatross. So that by nopossibility could Coleridge’s wild Rhyme have had aught to do withthose mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird uponour deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird tobe an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish alittle brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the birdchiefly lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced inthis, that by a solecism of terms there are birds called greyalbatrosses; and these I have frequently seen, but never with suchemotions as when I beheld the Antarctic fowl.But how had the mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and I willtell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.At last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leatherntally round its neck, with the ship’s time and place; and then lettingit escape. But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, wastaken off in Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding,the invoking, and adoring cherubim!Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of theWhite Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger,large-eyed, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of athousand monarchs in his lofty, overscorning carriage. He was theelected Xerxes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in thosedays were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies. Attheir flaming head he westward trooped it like that chosen star whichevery evening leads on the hosts of light. The flashing cascade of hismane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings moreresplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him. Amost imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen, westernworld, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived theglories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,bluff-browed and fearless as this mighty steed. Whether marching amidhis aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlesslystreamed it over the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with hiscircumambient subjects browsing all around at the horizon, the WhiteSteed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils reddening throughhis cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he presented himself, always tothe bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe.Nor can it be questioned from what stands on legendary record of thisnoble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which soclothed him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in itwhich, though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certainnameless terror.But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all thataccessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed andAlbatross.What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocksthe eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin! It isthat whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name hebears. The Albino is as well made as other men—has no substantivedeformity—and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes himmore strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this beso?Nor, in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but notthe less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces thiscrowning attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, thegauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the WhiteSquall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human maliceomitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect ofthat passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of theirfaction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in themarket-place!Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of allmankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. Itcannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect ofthe dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingeringthere; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge ofconsternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. Andfrom that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of theshroud in which we wrap them. Nor even in our superstitions do we failto throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising ina milk-white fog—Yea, while these terrors seize us, let us add, thateven the king of terrors, when personified by the evangelist, rides onhis pallid horse.Therefore, in his other moods, symbolize whatever grand or graciousthing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundestidealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man toaccount for it? To analyse it, would seem impossible. Can we, then, bythe citation of some of those instances wherein this thing ofwhiteness—though for the time either wholly or in great part strippedof all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful,but nevertheless, is found to exert over us the same sorcery, howevermodified;—can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct usto the hidden cause we seek?Let us try. But in a matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety,and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls. Andthough, doubtless, some at least of the imaginative impressions aboutto be presented may have been shared by most men, yet few perhaps wereentirely conscious of them at the time, and therefore may not be ableto recall them now.Why to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but looselyacquainted with the peculiar character of the day, does the baremention of Whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long, dreary,speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, down-cast and hoodedwith new-fallen snow? Or, to the unread, unsophisticated Protestant ofthe Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a WhiteFriar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?Or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors andkings (which will not wholly account for it) that makes the White Towerof London tell so much more strongly on the imagination of anuntravelled American, than those other storied structures, itsneighbors—the Byward Tower, or even the Bloody? And those sublimertowers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, whence, in peculiarmoods, comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the baremention of that name, while the thought of Virginia’s Blue Ridge isfull of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess? Or why, irrespective of alllatitudes and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such aspectralness over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us withmortal thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves,followed by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets? Or, to choose awholly unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, inreading the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does “the tall pale man”of the Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glidesthrough the green of the groves—why is this phantom more terrible thanall the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?Nor is it, altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-topplingearthquakes; nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor thetearlessness of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight of her widefield of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop(like canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues ofhouse-walls lying over upon each other, as a tossed pack of cards;—itis not these things alone which make tearless Lima, the strangest,saddest city thou can’st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; andthere is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro,this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerfulgreenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the rigidpallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.I know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whitenessis not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror ofobjects otherwise terrible; nor to the unimaginative mind is thereaught of terror in those appearances whose awfulness to another mindalmost solely consists in this one phenomenon, especially whenexhibited under any form at all approaching to muteness oruniversality. What I mean by these two statements may perhaps berespectively elucidated by the following examples.First: The mariner, when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands, ifby night he hear the roar of breakers, starts to vigilance, and feelsjust enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculties; but underprecisely similar circumstances, let him be called from his hammock toview his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness—as iffrom encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimminground him, then he feels a silent, superstitious dread; the shroudedphantom of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost; invain the lead assures him he is still off soundings; heart and helmthey both go down; he never rests till blue water is under him again.Yet where is the mariner who will tell thee, “Sir, it was not so muchthe fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideouswhiteness that so stirred me?”Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the continual sight of thesnow-howdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except, perhaps, in themere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at such vastaltitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be tolose oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much the same is it with thebackwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views anunbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twigto break the fixed trance of whiteness. Not so the sailor, beholdingthe scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernaltrick of legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering andhalf shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to hismisery, views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him withits lean ice monuments and splintered crosses.But thou sayest, methinks that white-lead chapter about whiteness isbut a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou surrenderest to ahypo, Ishmael.Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled in some peaceful valley ofVermont, far removed from all beasts of prey—why is it that upon thesunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him, so thathe cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal muskiness—whywill he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground inphrensies of affright? There is no remembrance in him of any gorings ofwild creatures in his green northern home, so that the strangemuskiness he smells cannot recall to him anything associated with theexperience of former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt,of the black bisons of distant Oregon?No: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinct of theknowledge of the demonism in the world. Though thousands of miles fromOregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the rending, goringbison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of theprairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.Thus, then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings ofthe festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of thewindrowed snows of prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shakingof that buffalo robe to the frightened colt!Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mysticsign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewherethose things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visibleworld seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed infright.But not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, andlearned why it appeals with such power to the soul; and more strangeand far more portentous—why, as we have seen, it is at once the mostmeaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of theChristian’s Deity; and yet should be as it is, the intensifying agentin things the most appalling to mankind.Is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voidsand immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with thethought of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milkyway? Or is it, that as in essence whiteness is not so much a colour asthe visible absence of colour; and at the same time the concrete of allcolours; is it for these reasons that there is such a dumb blankness,full of meaning, in a wide landscape of snows—a colourless, all-colourof atheism from which we shrink? And when we consider that other theoryof the natural philosophers, that all other earthly hues—every statelyor lovely emblazoning—the sweet tinges of sunset skies and woods; yea,and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the butterfly cheeks ofyoung girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not actually inherentin substances, but only laid on from without; so that all deifiedNature absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements covernothing but the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, andconsider that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of herhues, the great principle of light, for ever remains white or colorlessin itself, and if operating without medium upon matter, would touch allobjects, even tulips and roses, with its own blank tinge—pondering allthis, the palsied universe lies before us a leper; and like wilfultravellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear coloured and colouringglasses upon their eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes himself blind atthe monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him. Andof all these things the Albino whale was the symbol. Wonder ye then atthe fiery hunt?CHAPTER 43. Hark!“HIST! Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?”It was the middle-watch: a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing ina cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, tothe scuttle-butt near the taffrail. In this manner, they passed thebuckets to fill the scuttle-butt. Standing, for the most part, on thehallowed precincts of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speakor rustle their feet. From hand to hand, the buckets went in thedeepest silence, only broken by the occasional flap of a sail, and thesteady hum of the unceasingly advancing keel.It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the cordon,whose post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, aCholo, the words above.“Hist! did you hear that noise, Cabaco?”“Take the bucket, will ye, Archy? what noise d’ye mean?”“There it is again—under the hatches—don’t you hear it—a cough—itsounded like a cough.”“Cough be damned! Pass along that return bucket.”“There again—there it is!—it sounds like two or three sleepers turningover, now!”“Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye? It’s the three soaked biscuitsye eat for supper turning over inside of ye—nothing else. Look to thebucket!”“Say what ye will, shipmate; I’ve sharp ears.”“Aye, you are the chap, ain’t ye, that heard the hum of the oldQuakeress’s knitting-needles fifty miles at sea from Nantucket; you’rethe chap.”“Grin away; we’ll see what turns up. Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebodydown in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and Isuspect our old Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tellFlask, one morning watch, that there was something of that sort in thewind.”“Tish! the bucket!”CHAPTER 44. The Chart.Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall thattook place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of hispurpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in thetransom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish seacharts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table. Then seatinghimself before it, you would have seen him intently study the variouslines and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steadypencil trace additional courses over spaces that before were blank. Atintervals, he would refer to piles of old log-books beside him, whereinwere set down the seasons and places in which, on various formervoyages of various ships, sperm whales had been captured or seen.While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp suspended in chains over hishead, continually rocked with the motion of the ship, and for everthrew shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his wrinkled brow, tillit almost seemed that while he himself was marking out lines andcourses on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also tracinglines and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.But it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of hiscabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts. Almost every night they werebrought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, andothers were substituted. For with the charts of all four oceans beforehim, Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view tothe more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.Now, to any one not fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans,it might seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitarycreature in the unhooped oceans of this planet. But not so did it seemto Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides and currents; and therebycalculating the driftings of the sperm whale’s food; and, also, callingto mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting him in particularlatitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost approaching tocertainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or thatground in search of his prey.So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning the periodicalness of thesperm whale’s resorting to given waters, that many hunters believethat, could he be closely observed and studied throughout the world;were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefullycollated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found tocorrespond in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or theflights of swallows. On this hint, attempts have been made to constructelaborate migratory charts of the sperm whale.* *Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by an official circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of the National Observatory, Washington, April 16th, 1851. By that circular, it appears that precisely such a chart is in course of completion; and portions of it are presented in the circular. “This chart divides the ocean into districts of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of longitude; perpendicularly through each of which districts are twelve columns for the twelve months; and horizontally through each of which districts are three lines; one to show the number of days that have been spent in each month in every district, and the two others to show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been seen.”Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, thesperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct—say, rather, secretintelligence from the Deity—mostly swim in veins, as they are called;continuing their way along a given ocean-line with such undeviatingexactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any chart, with onetithe of such marvellous precision. Though, in these cases, thedirection taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor’s parallel,and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its ownunavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary vein in which at thesetimes he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width(more or less, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract); butnever exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship’s mast-heads, whencircumspectly gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that atparticular seasons within that breadth and along that path, migratingwhales may with great confidence be looked for.And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separatefeeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossingthe widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by hisart, so place and time himself on his way, as even then not to bewholly without prospect of a meeting.There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle hisdelirious but still methodical scheme. But not so in the reality,perhaps. Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasonsfor particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that theherds which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year,say, will turn out to be identically the same with those that werefound there the preceding season; though there are peculiar andunquestionable instances where the contrary of this has proved true. Ingeneral, the same remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to thesolitaries and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales. So thatthough Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on whatis called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay onthe Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the Pequod tovisit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season, shewould infallibly encounter him there. So, too, with some other feedinggrounds, where he had at times revealed himself. But all these seemedonly his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not hisplaces of prolonged abode. And where Ahab’s chances of accomplishinghis object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made towhatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere aparticular set time or place were attained, when all possibilitieswould become probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, everypossibility the next thing to a certainty. That particular set time andplace were conjoined in the one technical phrase—theSeason-on-the-Line. For there and then, for several consecutive years,Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in those waters forawhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a predictedinterval in any one sign of the Zodiac. There it was, too, that most ofthe deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there thewaves were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spotwhere the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to hisvengeance. But in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloiteringvigilance with which Ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfalteringhunt, he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the onecrowning fact above mentioned, however flattering it might be to thosehopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize hisunquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.Now, the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of theSeason-on-the-Line. No possible endeavor then could enable hercommander to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, andthen running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorialPacific in time to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the nextensuing season. Yet the premature hour of the Pequod’s sailing had,perhaps, been correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this verycomplexion of things. Because, an interval of three hundred andsixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval which, insteadof impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt;if by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remotefrom his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled browoff the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in anyother waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas,Nor’-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon,might blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of thePequod’s circumnavigating wake.But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems itnot but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, onesolitary whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable ofindividual recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Muftiin the thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiarsnow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but beunmistakable. And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter tohimself, as after poring over his charts till long after midnight hewould throw himself back in reveries—tallied him, and shall he escape?His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost sheep’s ear!And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till aweariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open airof the deck he would seek to recover his strength. Ah, God! whattrances of torments does that man endure who is consumed with oneunachieved revengeful desire. He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakeswith his own bloody nails in his palms.Often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vividdreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense thoughts throughthe day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and whirled themround and round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbingof his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as wassometimes the case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being upfrom its base, and a chasm seemed opening in him, from which forkedflames and lightnings shot up, and accursed fiends beckoned him to leapdown among them; when this hell in himself yawned beneath him, a wildcry would be heard through the ship; and with glaring eyes Ahab wouldburst from his state room, as though escaping from a bed that was onfire. Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the unsuppressable symptomsof some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve, were but theplainest tokens of its intensity. For, at such times, crazy Ahab, thescheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this Ahabthat had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused him toburst from it in horror again. The latter was the eternal, livingprinciple or soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociatedfrom the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for itsouter vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from thescorching contiguity of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, itwas no longer an integral. But as the mind does not exist unlessleagued with the soul, therefore it must have been that, in Ahab’scase, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies to his one supremepurpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of will, forceditself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed, independentbeing of its own. Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the commonvitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from theunbidden and unfathered birth. Therefore, the tormented spirit thatglared out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room,was for the time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being,a ray of living light, to be sure, but without an object to colour, andtherefore a blankness in itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughtshave created a creature in thee; and he whose intense thinking thusmakes him a Prometheus; a vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; thatvulture the very creature he creates.CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.So far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed,as indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curiousparticulars in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, inits earlier part, is as important a one as will be found in thisvolume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still further andmore familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood,and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance ofthe entire subject may induce in some minds, as to the natural verityof the main points of this affair.I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall becontent to produce the desired impression by separate citations ofitems, practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and fromthese citations, I take it—the conclusion aimed at will naturallyfollow of itself.First: I have personally known three instances where a whale, afterreceiving a harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after aninterval (in one instance of three years), has been again struck by thesame hand, and slain; when the two irons, both marked by the sameprivate cypher, have been taken from the body. In the instance wherethree years intervened between the flinging of the two harpoons; and Ithink it may have been something more than that; the man who dartedthem happening, in the interval, to go in a trading ship on a voyage toAfrica, went ashore there, joined a discovery party, and penetrated farinto the interior, where he travelled for a period of nearly two years,often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous miasmas, withall the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart ofunknown regions. Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have beenon its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe,brushing with its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.This man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished theother. I say I, myself, have known three instances similar to this;that is in two of them I saw the whales struck; and, upon the secondattack, saw the two irons with the respective marks cut in them,afterwards taken from the dead fish. In the three-year instance, it sofell out that I was in the boat both times, first and last, and thelast time distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under thewhale’s eye, which I had observed there three years previous. I saythree years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that. Here are threeinstances, then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heardof many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter thereis no good ground to impeach.Secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale Fishery, however ignorantthe world ashore may be of it, that there have been several memorablehistorical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been atdistant times and places popularly cognisable. Why such a whale becamethus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodilypeculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiarin that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to hispeculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarlyvaluable oil. No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiencesof the fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness aboutsuch a whale as there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that mostfishermen were content to recognise him by merely touching theirtarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by them on the sea,without seeking to cultivate a more intimate acquaintance. Like somepoor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, theymake distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, lest if theypursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thumpfor their presumption.But not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individualcelebrity—Nay, you may call it an ocean-wide renown; not only was hefamous in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death,but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges, and distinctionsof a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Cæsar. Was it notso, O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who solong did’st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout wasoft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New ZealandJack! thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in thevicinity of the Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan,whose lofty jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-whitecross against the sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale,marked like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back! Inplain prose, here are four whales as well known to the students ofCetacean History as Marius or Sylla to the classic scholar.But this is not all. New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel, after at varioustimes creating great havoc among the boats of different vessels, werefinally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and killedby valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with thatexpress object as much in view, as in setting out through theNarragansett Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capturethat notorious murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of theIndian King Philip.I do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to makemention of one or two other things, which to me seem important, as inprinted form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of thewhole story of the White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. Forthis is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires fullas much bolstering as error. So ignorant are most landsmen of some ofthe plainest and most palpable wonders of the world, that without somehints touching the plain facts, historical and otherwise, of thefishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a monstrous fable, or stillworse and more detestable, a hideous and intolerable allegory.First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas of the generalperils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a fixed, vividconception of those perils, and the frequency with which they recur.One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disastersand deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record athome, however transient and immediately forgotten that record. Do yousuppose that that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught bythe whale-line off the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down tothe bottom of the sea by the sounding leviathan—do you suppose thatthat poor fellow’s name will appear in the newspaper obituary you willread to-morrow at your breakfast? No: because the mails are veryirregular between here and New Guinea. In fact, did you ever hear whatmight be called regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea? Yet Itell you that upon one particular voyage which I made to the Pacific,among many others we spoke thirty different ships, every one of whichhad had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three thathad each lost a boat’s crew. For God’s sake, be economical with yourlamps and candles! not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop ofman’s blood was spilled for it.Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whaleis an enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found thatwhen narrating to them some specific example of this two-foldenormousness, they have significantly complimented me upon myfacetiousness; when, I declare upon my soul, I had no more idea ofbeing facetious than Moses, when he wrote the history of the plagues ofEgypt.But fortunately the special point I here seek can be established upontestimony entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The SpermWhale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciouslymalicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy,and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale has done it.First: In the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket,was cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered herboats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere long, several ofthe whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escapingfrom the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon theship. Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, thatin less than “ten minutes” she settled down and fell over. Not asurviving plank of her has been seen since. After the severestexposure, part of the crew reached the land in their boats. Beingreturned home at last, Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacificin command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again uponunknown rocks and breakers; for the second time his ship was utterlylost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since.At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of Nantucket. I have seenOwen Chace, who was chief mate of the Essex at the time of the tragedy;I have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have conversed with hisson; and all this within a few miles of the scene of the catastrophe.**The following are extracts from Chace’s narrative: “Every fact seemedto warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance whichdirected his operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, ata short interval between them, both of which, according to theirdirection, were calculated to do us the most injury, by being madeahead, and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for theshock; to effect which, the exact manœuvres which he made werenecessary. His aspect was most horrible, and such as indicatedresentment and fury. He came directly from the shoal which we had justbefore entered, and in which we had struck three of his companions, asif fired with revenge for their sufferings.” Again: “At all events, thewhole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own eyes,and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided,calculating mischief, on the part of the whale (many of whichimpressions I cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I amcorrect in my opinion.”Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during ablack night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching anyhospitable shore. “The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; thefears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed uponhidden rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearfulcontemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment’s thought; thedismal looking wreck, and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale,wholly engrossed my reflections, until day again made its appearance.”In another place—p. 45,—he speaks of “the mysterious and mortal attackof the animal.”Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authenticparticulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter,though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casualallusions to it.Thirdly: Some eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J——, thencommanding an American sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to bedining with a party of whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship inthe harbor of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Conversation turning upon whales,the Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strengthascribed to them by the professional gentlemen present. He peremptorilydenied for example, that any whale could so smite his stoutsloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Verygood; but there is more coming. Some weeks after, the Commodore setsail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped onthe way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments’confidential business with him. That business consisted in fetching theCommodore’s craft such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he madestraight for the nearest port to heave down and repair. I am notsuperstitious, but I consider the Commodore’s interview with that whaleas providential. Was not Saul of Tarsus converted from unbelief by asimilar fright? I tell you, the sperm whale will stand no nonsense.I will now refer you to Langsdorff’s Voyages for a little circumstancein point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof. Langsdorff, youmust know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern’sfamous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century.Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter:“By the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next daywe were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weather wasvery clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged tokeep on our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it wasnot till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up.An uncommon large whale, the body of which was larger than the shipitself, lay almost at the surface of the water, but was not perceivedby any one on board till the moment when the ship, which was in fullsail, was almost upon him, so that it was impossible to prevent itsstriking against him. We were thus placed in the most imminent danger,as this gigantic creature, setting up its back, raised the ship threefeet at least out of the water. The masts reeled, and the sails fellaltogether, while we who were below all sprang instantly upon the deck,concluding that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we sawthe monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity. CaptainD’Wolf applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not thevessel had received any damage from the shock, but we found that veryhappily it had escaped entirely uninjured.”Now, the Captain D’Wolf here alluded to as commanding the ship inquestion, is a New Englander, who, after a long life of unusualadventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village ofDorchester near Boston. I have the honor of being a nephew of his. Ihave particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.He substantiates every word. The ship, however, was by no means a largeone: a Russian craft built on the Siberian coast, and purchased by myuncle after bartering away the vessel in which he sailed from home.In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned adventure, so full,too, of honest wonders—the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one of ancientDampier’s old chums—I found a little matter set down so like that justquoted from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for acorroborative example, if such be needed.Lionel, it seems, was on his way to “John Ferdinando,” as he calls themodern Juan Fernandes. “In our way thither,” he says, “about fouro’clock in the morning, when we were about one hundred and fiftyleagues from the Main of America, our ship felt a terrible shock, whichput our men in such consternation that they could hardly tell wherethey were or what to think; but every one began to prepare for death.And, indeed, the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it forgranted the ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement wasa little over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground. * ** * * The suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in theircarriages, and several of the men were shaken out of their hammocks.Captain Davis, who lay with his head on a gun, was thrown out of hiscabin!” Lionel then goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake, andseems to substantiate the imputation by stating that a greatearthquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do great mischiefalong the Spanish land. But I should not much wonder if, in thedarkness of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after allcaused by an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.I might proceed with several more examples, one way or another known tome, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In morethan one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailingboats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and longwithstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English shipPusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength, letme say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to arunning sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, andsecured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as ahorse walks off with a cart. Again, it is very often observed that, ifthe sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts,not so often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs ofdestruction to his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquentindication of his character, that upon being attacked he willfrequently open his mouth, and retain it in that dread expansion forseveral consecutive minutes. But I must be content with only one moreand a concluding illustration; a remarkable and most significant one,by which you will not fail to see, that not only is the most marvellousevent in this book corroborated by plain facts of the present day, butthat these marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions of the ages;so that for the millionth time we say amen with Solomon—Verily there isnothing new under the sun.In the sixth Christian century lived Procopius, a Christian magistrateof Constantinople, in the days when Justinian was Emperor andBelisarius general. As many know, he wrote the history of his owntimes, a work every way of uncommon value. By the best authorities, hehas always been considered a most trustworthy and unexaggeratinghistorian, except in some one or two particulars, not at all affectingthe matter presently to be mentioned.Now, in this history of his, Procopius mentions that, during the termof his prefecture at Constantinople, a great sea-monster was capturedin the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of Marmora, after having destroyedvessels at intervals in those waters for a period of more than fiftyyears. A fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily begainsaid. Nor is there any reason it should be. Of what precise speciesthis sea-monster was, is not mentioned. But as he destroyed ships, aswell as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am stronglyinclined to think a sperm whale. And I will tell you why. For a longtime I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in theMediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it. Even now I amcertain that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in thepresent constitution of things, a place for his habitual gregariousresort. But further investigations have recently proved to me, that inmodern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of thesperm whale in the Mediterranean. I am told, on good authority, that onthe Barbary coast, a Commodore Davis of the British navy found theskeleton of a sperm whale. Now, as a vessel of war readily passesthrough the Dardanelles, hence a sperm whale could, by the same route,pass out of the Mediterranean into the Propontis.In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiarsubstance called brit is to be found, the aliment of the right whale.But I have every reason to believe that the food of the spermwhale—squid or cuttle-fish—lurks at the bottom of that sea, becauselarge creatures, but by no means the largest of that sort, have beenfound at its surface. If, then, you properly put these statementstogether, and reason upon them a bit, you will clearly perceive that,according to all human reasoning, Procopius’s sea-monster, that forhalf a century stove the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in allprobability have been a sperm whale.CHAPTER 46. Surmises.Though, consumed with the hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all histhoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of MobyDick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to thatone passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature andlong habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman’s ways, altogetherto abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. Or at least ifthis were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much moreinfluential with him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, evenconsidering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards theWhite Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to allsperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more hemultiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale wouldprove to be the hated one he hunted. But if such an hypothesis beindeed exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which,though not so strictly according with the wildness of his rulingpassion, yet were by no means incapable of swaying him.To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and of all tools used inthe shadow of the moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew,for example, that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects wasover Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the complete spiritualman any more than mere corporeal superiority involves intellectualmastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but stand ina sort of corporeal relation. Starbuck’s body and Starbuck’s coercedwill were Ahab’s, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck’s brain;still he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorredhis captain’s quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himselffrom it, or even frustrate it. It might be that a long interval wouldelapse ere the White Whale was seen. During that long interval Starbuckwould ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebellion against hiscaptain’s leadership, unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantialinfluences were brought to bear upon him. Not only that, but the subtleinsanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was noways more significantlymanifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeingthat, for the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of thatstrange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it; that thefull terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscurebackground (for few men’s courage is proof against protractedmeditation unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long nightwatches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to think ofthan Moby Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew hadhailed the announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts aremore or less capricious and unreliable—they live in the varying outerweather, and they inhale its fickleness—and when retained for anyobject remote and blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life andpassion in the end, it is above all things requisite that temporaryinterests and employments should intervene and hold them healthilysuspended for the final dash.Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing. In times of strong emotionmankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are evanescent.The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thoughtAhab, is sordidness. Granting that the White Whale fully incites thehearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness evenbreeds a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while forthe love of it they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have foodfor their more common, daily appetites. For even the high lifted andchivalric Crusaders of old times were not content to traverse twothousand miles of land to fight for their holy sepulchre, withoutcommitting burglaries, picking pockets, and gaining other piousperquisites by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one finaland romantic object—that final and romantic object, too many would haveturned from in disgust. I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, ofall hopes of cash—aye, cash. They may scorn cash now; but let somemonths go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then thissame quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash wouldsoon cashier Ahab.Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more relatedto Ahab personally. Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhapssomewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of thePequod’s voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, hehad indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge ofusurpation; and with perfect impunity, both moral and legal, his crewif so disposed, and to that end competent, could refuse all furtherobedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. Fromeven the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possibleconsequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab mustof course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protectioncould only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand,backed by a heedful, closely calculating attention to every minuteatmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to besubjected to.For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too analytic to beverbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still in a gooddegree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod’svoyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but forcehimself to evince all his well known passionate interest in the generalpursuit of his profession.Be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the threemast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omitreporting even a porpoise. This vigilance was not long without reward.CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker.It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon; the seamen were lazily loungingabout the decks, or vacantly gazing over into the lead-coloured waters.Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword-mat,for an additional lashing to our boat. So still and subdued and yetsomehow preluding was all the scene, and such an incantation of reverielurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his owninvisible self.I was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at the mat. As Ikept passing and repassing the filling or woof of marline between thelong yarns of the warp, using my own hand for the shuttle, and asQueequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid his heavy oaken swordbetween the threads, and idly looking off upon the water, carelesslyand unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a dreaminessdid there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, onlybroken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed asif this were the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanicallyweaving and weaving away at the Fates. There lay the fixed threads ofthe warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchangingvibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswiseinterblending of other threads with its own. This warp seemednecessity; and here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttleand weave my own destiny into these unalterable threads. Meantime,Queequeg’s impulsive, indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woofslantingly, or crookedly, or strongly, or weakly, as the case might be;and by this difference in the concluding blow producing a correspondingcontrast in the final aspect of the completed fabric; this savage’ssword, thought I, which thus finally shapes and fashions both warp andwoof; this easy, indifferent sword must be chance—aye, chance, freewill, and necessity—nowise incompatible—all interweavingly workingtogether. The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from itsultimate course—its every alternating vibration, indeed, only tendingto that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads;and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines ofnecessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, thoughthus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has thelast featuring blow at events.Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started at a sound sostrange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the ball offree will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the cloudswhence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-treeswas that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagerlyforward, his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief suddenintervals he continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was thatvery moment perhaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds ofwhalemen’s look-outs perched as high in the air; but from few of thoselungs could that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellouscadence as from Tashtego the Indian’s.As he stood hovering over you half suspended in air, so wildly andeagerly peering towards the horizon, you would have thought him someprophet or seer beholding the shadows of Fate, and by those wild criesannouncing their coming.“There she blows! there! there! there! she blows! she blows!”“Where-away?”“On the lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of them!”Instantly all was commotion.The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating andreliable uniformity. And thereby whalemen distinguish this fish fromother tribes of his genus.“There go flukes!” was now the cry from Tashtego; and the whalesdisappeared.“Quick, steward!” cried Ahab. “Time! time!”Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported the exactminute to Ahab.The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she went gently rollingbefore it. Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone down heading toleeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in advance ofour bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm Whalewhen, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, whileconcealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off inthe opposite quarter—this deceitfulness of his could not now be inaction; for there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen byTashtego had been in any way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of ourvicinity. One of the men selected for shipkeepers—that is, those notappointed to the boats, by this time relieved the Indian at themain-mast head. The sailors at the fore and mizzen had come down; theline tubs were fixed in their places; the cranes were thrust out; themainyard was backed, and the three boats swung over the sea like threesamphire baskets over high cliffs. Outside of the bulwarks their eagercrews with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was expectantlypoised on the gunwale. So look the long line of man-of-war’s men aboutto throw themselves on board an enemy’s ship.But at this critical instant a sudden exclamation was heard that tookevery eye from the whale. With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who wassurrounded by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering.The phantoms, for so they then seemed, were flitting on the other sideof the deck, and, with a noiseless celerity, were casting loose thetackles and bands of the boat which swung there. This boat had alwaysbeen deemed one of the spare boats, though technically called thecaptain’s, on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter. Thefigure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart, with one whitetooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips. A rumpled Chinesejacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide blacktrowsers of the same dark stuff. But strangely crowning this ebonnesswas a glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided andcoiled round and round upon his head. Less swart in aspect, thecompanions of this figure were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexionpeculiar to some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;—a racenotorious for a certain diabolism of subtilty, and by some honest whitemariners supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agentson the water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-room they supposeto be elsewhere.While yet the wondering ship’s company were gazing upon thesestrangers, Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head,“All ready there, Fedallah?”“Ready,” was the half-hissed reply.“Lower away then; d’ye hear?” shouting across the deck. “Lower awaythere, I say.”Such was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement themen sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks; witha wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with adexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, thesailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship’s side into the tossedboats below.Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship’s lee, when a fourthkeel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern, andshowed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in thestern, loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselveswidely, so as to cover a large expanse of water. But with all theireyes again riveted upon the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates ofthe other boats obeyed not the command.“Captain Ahab?—” said Starbuck.“Spread yourselves,” cried Ahab; “give way, all four boats. Thou,Flask, pull out more to leeward!”“Aye, aye, sir,” cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round hisgreat steering oar. “Lay back!” addressing his crew.“There!—there!—there again! There she blows right ahead, boys!—layback!”“Never heed yonder yellow boys, Archy.”“Oh, I don’t mind ’em, sir,” said Archy; “I knew it all before now.Didn’t I hear ’em in the hold? And didn’t I tell Cabaco here of it?What say ye, Cabaco? They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.”“Pull, pull, my fine hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my littleones,” drawlingly and soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whomstill showed signs of uneasiness. “Why don’t you break your backbones,my boys? What is it you stare at? Those chaps in yonder boat? Tut! Theyare only five more hands come to help us—never mind from where—the morethe merrier. Pull, then, do pull; never mind the brimstone—devils aregood fellows enough. So, so; there you are now; that’s the stroke for athousand pounds; that’s the stroke to sweep the stakes! Hurrah for thegold cup of sperm oil, my heroes! Three cheers, men—all hearts alive!Easy, easy; don’t be in a hurry—don’t be in a hurry. Why don’t you snapyour oars, you rascals? Bite something, you dogs! So, so, so,then:—softly, softly! That’s it—that’s it! long and strong. Give waythere, give way! The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin rapscallions; ye areall asleep. Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull. Pull, will ye? pull,can’t ye? pull, won’t ye? Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakesdon’t ye pull?—pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out!Here!” whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; “every mother’sson of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth.That’s it—that’s it. Now ye do something; that looks like it, mysteel-bits. Start her—start her, my silver-spoons! Start her,marling-spikes!”Stubb’s exordium to his crew is given here at large, because he hadrather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially ininculcating the religion of rowing. But you must not suppose from thisspecimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passionswith his congregation. Not at all; and therein consisted his chiefpeculiarity. He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in atone so strangely compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed socalculated merely as a spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hearsuch queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pullingfor the mere joke of the thing. Besides he all the time looked so easyand indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and sobroadly gaped—open-mouthed at times—that the mere sight of such ayawning commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm uponthe crew. Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists,whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put allinferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.In obedience to a sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquelyacross Stubb’s bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats werepretty near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate.“Mr. Starbuck! larboard boat there, ahoy! a word with ye, sir, if yeplease!”“Halloa!” returned Starbuck, turning round not a single inch as hespoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face setlike a flint from Stubb’s.“What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!”“Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong,boys!)” in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: “A sadbusiness, Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind,Mr. Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come whatwill. (Spring, my men, spring!) There’s hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr.Stubb, and that’s what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm’s theplay! This at least is duty; duty and profit hand in hand.”“Aye, aye, I thought as much,” soliloquized Stubb, when the boatsdiverged, “as soon as I clapt eye on ’em, I thought so. Aye, and that’swhat he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy longsuspected. They were hidden down there. The White Whale’s at the bottomof it. Well, well, so be it! Can’t be helped! All right! Give way, men!It ain’t the White Whale to-day! Give way!”Now the advent of these outlandish strangers at such a critical instantas the lowering of the boats from the deck, this had not unreasonablyawakened a sort of superstitious amazement in some of the ship’scompany; but Archy’s fancied discovery having some time previous gotabroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in somesmall measure prepared them for the event. It took off the extreme edgeof their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb’s confident way ofaccounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed fromsuperstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant roomfor all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab’s precise agency inthe matter from the beginning. For me, I silently recalled themysterious shadows I had seen creeping on board the Pequod during thedim Nantucket dawn, as well as the enigmatical hintings of theunaccountable Elijah.Meantime, Ahab, out of hearing of his officers, having sided thefurthest to windward, was still ranging ahead of the other boats; acircumstance bespeaking how potent a crew was pulling him. Those tigeryellow creatures of his seemed all steel and whalebone; like fivetrip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of strength, whichperiodically started the boat along the water like a horizontal burstboiler out of a Mississippi steamer. As for Fedallah, who was seenpulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, anddisplayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above thegunwale, clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the wateryhorizon; while at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one arm, like afencer’s, thrown half backward into the air, as if to counterbalanceany tendency to trip; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oaras in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him. Allat once the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remainedfixed, while the boat’s five oars were seen simultaneously peaked. Boatand crew sat motionless on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats inthe rear paused on their way. The whales had irregularly settled bodilydown into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of themovement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.“Every man look out along his oars!” cried Starbuck. “Thou, Queequeg,stand up!”Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savagestood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards thespot where the chase had last been descried. Likewise upon the extremestern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level withthe gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancinghimself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silentlyeyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.Not very far distant Flask’s boat was also lying breathlessly still;its commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, astout sort of post rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet abovethe level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with thewhale line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man’s hand,and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at themast-head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But littleKing-Post was small and short, and at the same time little King-Postwas full of a large and tall ambition, so that this loggerheadstand-point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.“I can’t see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on tothat.”Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way,swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his loftyshoulders for a pedestal.“Good a mast-head as any, sir. Will you mount?”“That I will, and thank ye very much, my fine fellow; only I wish youfifty feet taller.”Whereupon planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of theboat, the gigantic negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm toFlask’s foot, and then putting Flask’s hand on his hearse-plumed headand bidding him spring as he himself should toss, with one dexterousfling landed the little man high and dry on his shoulders. And here wasFlask now standing, Daggoo with one lifted arm furnishing him with abreastband to lean against and steady himself by.At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondroushabitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erectposture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotouslyperverse and cross-running seas. Still more strange to see him giddilyperched upon the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances. But thesight of little Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet morecurious; for sustaining himself with a cool, indifferent, easy,unthought of, barbaric majesty, the noble negro to every roll of thesea harmoniously rolled his fine form. On his broad back, flaxen-hairedFlask seemed a snow-flake. The bearer looked nobler than the rider.Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious little Flask would nowand then stamp with impatience; but not one added heave did he therebygive to the negro’s lordly chest. So have I seen Passion and Vanitystamping the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did not alter hertides and her seasons for that.Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazingsolicitudes. The whales might have made one of their regular soundings,not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that were the case,Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to solace thelanguishing interval with his pipe. He withdrew it from his hatband,where he always wore it aslant like a feather. He loaded it, and rammedhome the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited hismatch across the rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, hisharpooneer, whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixedstars, suddenly dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat,crying out in a quick phrensy of hurry, “Down, down all, and giveway!—there they are!”To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have beenvisible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish whitewater, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, andsuffusingly blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from whiterolling billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as itwere, like the air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath thisatmospheric waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer ofwater, also, the whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all the otherindications, the puffs of vapor they spouted, seemed their forerunningcouriers and detached flying outriders.All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubledwater and air. But it bade fair to outstrip them; it flew on and on, asa mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from thehills.“Pull, pull, my good boys,” said Starbuck, in the lowest possible butintensest concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glancefrom his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as twovisible needles in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say muchto his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only thesilence of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of hispeculiar whispers, now harsh with command, now soft with entreaty.How different the loud little King-Post. “Sing out and say something,my hearties. Roar and pull, my thunderbolts! Beach me, beach me ontheir black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I’ll sign over to youmy Martha’s Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and children,boys. Lay me on—lay me on! O Lord, Lord! but I shall go stark, staringmad! See! see that white water!” And so shouting, he pulled his hatfrom his head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up,flirted it far off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing andplunging in the boat’s stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.“Look at that chap now,” philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with hisunlighted short pipe, mechanically retained between his teeth, at ashort distance, followed after—“He’s got fits, that Flask has. Fits?yes, give him fits—that’s the very word—pitch fits into ’em. Merrily,merrily, hearts-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;—merry’s the word.Pull, babes—pull, sucklings—pull, all. But what the devil are youhurrying about? Softly, softly, and steadily, my men. Only pull, andkeep pulling; nothing more. Crack all your backbones, and bite yourknives in two—that’s all. Take it easy—why don’t ye take it easy, Isay, and burst all your livers and lungs!”But what it was that inscrutable Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew ofhis—these were words best omitted here; for you live under the blessedlight of the evangelical land. Only the infidel sharks in the audaciousseas may give ear to such words, when, with tornado brow, and eyes ofred murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after his prey.Meanwhile, all the boats tore on. The repeated specific allusions ofFlask to “that whale,” as he called the fictitious monster which hedeclared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat’s bow with itstail—these allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, thatthey would cause some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful lookover the shoulder. But this was against all rule; for the oarsmen mustput out their eyes, and ram a skewer through their necks; usagepronouncing that they must have no organs but ears, and no limbs butarms, in these critical moments.It was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells of theomnipotent sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolledalong the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a boundlessbowling-green; the brief suspended agony of the boat, as it would tipfor an instant on the knife-like edge of the sharper waves, that almostseemed threatening to cut it in two; the sudden profound dip into thewatery glens and hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain thetop of the opposite hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its otherside;—all these, with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, andthe shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of theivory Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, likea wild hen after her screaming brood;—all this was thrilling.Not the raw recruit, marching from the bosom of his wife into the feverheat of his first battle; not the dead man’s ghost encountering thefirst unknown phantom in the other world;—neither of these can feelstranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the firsttime finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of thehunted sperm whale.The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more andmore visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadowsflung upon the sea. The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tiltedeverywhere to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whalesrunning dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with the stillrising wind, we rushed along; the boat going with such madness throughthe water, that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough toescape being torn from the row-locks.Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist; neithership nor boat to be seen.“Give way, men,” whispered Starbuck, drawing still further aft thesheet of his sail; “there is time to kill a fish yet before the squallcomes. There’s white water again!—close to! Spring!”Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denotedthat the other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, whenwith a lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: “Stand up!” andQueequeg, harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.Though not one of the oarsmen was then facing the life and death perilso close to them ahead, yet with their eyes on the intense countenanceof the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew that the imminentinstant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing sound as offifty elephants stirring in their litter. Meanwhile the boat was stillbooming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us likethe erected crests of enraged serpents.“That’s his hump. There, there, give it to him!” whisperedStarbuck.A short rushing sound leaped out of the boat; it was the darted iron ofQueequeg. Then all in one welded commotion came an invisible push fromastern, while forward the boat seemed striking on a ledge; the sailcollapsed and exploded; a gush of scalding vapor shot up near by;something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us. The wholecrew were half suffocated as they were tossed helter-skelter into thewhite curdling cream of the squall. Squall, whale, and harpoon had allblended together; and the whale, merely grazed by the iron, escaped.Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed. Swimming roundit we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the gunwale,tumbled back to our places. There we sat up to our knees in the sea,the water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazingeyes the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from thebottom of the ocean.The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers together;the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a whitefire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortalin these jaws of death! In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roarto the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail thoseboats in that storm. Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grewdarker with the shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat. The oars wereuseless as propellers, performing now the office of life-preservers.So, cutting the lashing of the waterproof match keg, after manyfailures Starbuck contrived to ignite the lamp in the lantern; thenstretching it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg as thestandard-bearer of this forlorn hope. There, then, he sat, holding upthat imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness. There,then, he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelesslyholding up hope in the midst of despair.Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold, despairing of ship or boat,we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on. The mist still spread overthe sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat.Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear.We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffledby the storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists weredimly parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into thesea as the ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon uswithin a distance of not much more than its length.Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant ittossed and gaped beneath the ship’s bows like a chip at the base of acataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen nomore till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, weredashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safelylanded on board. Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cutloose from their fish and returned to the ship in good time. The shiphad given us up, but was still cruising, if haply it might light uponsome token of our perishing,—an oar or a lance pole.CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.There are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixedaffair we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vastpractical joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns, and morethan suspects that the joke is at nobody’s expense but his own.However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing. Hebolts down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, allhard things visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrichof potent digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints. And as forsmall difficulties and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, perilof life and limb; all these, and death itself, seem to him only sly,good-natured hits, and jolly punches in the side bestowed by the unseenand unaccountable old joker. That odd sort of wayward mood I amspeaking of, comes over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation;it comes in the very midst of his earnestness, so that what just beforemight have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now seems but a partof the general joke. There is nothing like the perils of whaling tobreed this free and easy sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and withit I now regarded this whole voyage of the Pequod, and the great WhiteWhale its object.“Queequeg,” said I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to thedeck, and I was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off thewater; “Queequeg, my fine friend, does this sort of thing oftenhappen?” Without much emotion, though soaked through just like me, hegave me to understand that such things did often happen.“Mr. Stubb,” said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up in hisoil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; “Mr. Stubb, Ithink I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chiefmate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent. I supposethen, that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggysquall is the height of a whaleman’s discretion?”“Certain. I’ve lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale offCape Horn.”“Mr. Flask,” said I, turning to little King-Post, who was standingclose by; “you are experienced in these things, and I am not. Will youtell me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask,for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost intodeath’s jaws?”“Can’t you twist that smaller?” said Flask. “Yes, that’s the law. Ishould like to see a boat’s crew backing water up to a whale faceforemost. Ha, ha! the whale would give them squint for squint, mindthat!”Here then, from three impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statementof the entire case. Considering, therefore, that squalls and capsizingsin the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters ofcommon occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at thesuperlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resignmy life into the hands of him who steered the boat—oftentimes a fellowwho at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point ofscuttling the craft with his own frantic stampings; considering thatthe particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to beimputed to Starbuck’s driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of asquall, and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous forhis great heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged tothis uncommonly prudent Starbuck’s boat; and finally considering inwhat a devil’s chase I was implicated, touching the White Whale: takingall things together, I say, I thought I might as well go below and makea rough draft of my will. “Queequeg,” said I, “come along, you shall bemy lawyer, executor, and legatee.”It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering attheir last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the worldmore fond of that diversion. This was the fourth time in my nauticallife that I had done the same thing. After the ceremony was concludedupon the present occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolledaway from my heart. Besides, all the days I should now live would be asgood as the days that Lazarus lived after his resurrection; asupplementary clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case mightbe. I survived myself; my death and burial were locked up in my chest.I looked round me tranquilly and contentedly, like a quiet ghost with aclean conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug family vault.Now then, thought I, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of my frock,here goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and thedevil fetch the hindmost.CHAPTER 50. Ahab’s Boat and Crew. Fedallah.“Who would have thought it, Flask!” cried Stubb; “if I had but one legyou would not catch me in a boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-holewith my timber toe. Oh! he’s a wonderful old man!”“I don’t think it so strange, after all, on that account,” said Flask.“If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the otherleft, you know.”“I don’t know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel.”Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, consideringthe paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, itis right for a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the activeperils of the chase. So Tamerlane’s soldiers often argued with tears intheir eyes, whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carriedinto the thickest of the fight.But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect. Considering thatwith two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger;considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great andextraordinary difficulties; that every individual moment, indeed, thencomprises a peril; under these circumstances is it wise for any maimedman to enter a whale-boat in the hunt? As a general thing, thejoint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly thought not.Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think little ofhis entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes ofthe chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and givinghis orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actuallyapportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt—above all forCaptain Ahab to be supplied with five extra men, as that same boat’screw, he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the headsof the owners of the Pequod. Therefore he had not solicited a boat’screw from them, nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head.Nevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all thatmatter. Until Cabaco’s published discovery, the sailors had littleforeseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out ofport, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting thewhaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and thenfound bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with hisown hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and evensolicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line isrunning out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this wasobserved in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extracoat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it betterwithstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxietyhe evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as itis sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat’s bow for bracingthe knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it wasobserved how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary kneefixed in the semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with thecarpenter’s chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it alittle there; all these things, I say, had awakened much interest andcuriosity at the time. But almost everybody supposed that thisparticular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view tothe ultimate chase of Moby Dick; for he had already revealed hisintention to hunt that mortal monster in person. But such a suppositiondid by no means involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat’s crewbeing assigned to that boat.Now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon wanedaway; for in a whaler wonders soon wane. Besides, now and then suchunaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknownnooks and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws ofwhalers; and the ships themselves often pick up such queer castawaycreatures found tossing about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck,oars, whaleboats, canoes, blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; thatBeelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabinto chat with the captain, and it would not create any unsubduableexcitement in the forecastle.But be all this as it may, certain it is that while the subordinatephantoms soon found their place among the crew, though still as it weresomehow distinct from them, yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained amuffled mystery to the last. Whence he came in a mannerly world likethis, by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to belinked with Ahab’s peculiar fortunes; nay, so far as to have some sortof a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but it might have been evenauthority over him; all this none knew. But one cannot sustain anindifferent air concerning Fedallah. He was such a creature ascivilized, domestic people in the temperate zone only see in theirdreams, and that but dimly; but the like of whom now and then glideamong the unchanging Asiatic communities, especially the Oriental islesto the east of the continent—those insulated, immemorial, unalterablecountries, which even in these modern days still preserve much of theghostly aboriginalness of earth’s primal generations, when the memoryof the first man was a distinct recollection, and all men hisdescendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as realphantoms, and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created andto what end; when though, according to Genesis, the angels indeedconsorted with the daughters of men, the devils also, add theuncanonical Rabbins, indulged in mundane amours.CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout.Days, weeks passed, and under easy sail, the ivory Pequod had slowlyswept across four several cruising-grounds; that off the Azores; offthe Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called), being off the mouth ofthe Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an unstaked, waterylocality, southerly from St. Helena.It was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene andmoonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver;and, by their soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silverysilence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seenfar in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, itlooked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising fromthe sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlightnights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand alook-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day. And yet,though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in ahundred would venture a lowering for them. You may think with whatemotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft atsuch unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. Butwhen, after spending his uniform interval there for several successivenights without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence,his unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet,every reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirithad lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. “There sheblows!” Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quiveredmore; yet still they felt no terror; rather pleasure. For though it wasa most unwonted hour, yet so impressive was the cry, and so deliriouslyexciting, that almost every soul on board instinctively desired alowering.Walking the deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded thet’gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread. Thebest man in the ship must take the helm. Then, with every mast-headmanned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the wind. The strange,upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollowsof so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like airbeneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonisticinfluences were struggling in her—one to mount direct to heaven, theother to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal. And had you watchedAhab’s face that night, you would have thought that in him also twodifferent things were warring. While his one live leg made livelyechoes along the deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded like acoffin-tap. On life and death this old man walked. But though the shipso swiftly sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, the eagerglances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night. Everysailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.This midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some daysafter, lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again itwas descried by all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more itdisappeared as if it had never been. And so it served us night afternight, till no one heeded it but to wonder at it. Mysteriously jettedinto the clear moonlight, or starlight, as the case might be;disappearing again for one whole day, or two days, or three; andsomehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be advancing stillfurther and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for everalluring us on.Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and in accordancewith the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many things investedthe Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore thatwhenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in howeverfar apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast byone self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick. For a time, therereigned, too, a sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, asif it were treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that themonster might turn round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotestand most savage seas.These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived awondrous potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, inwhich, beneath all its blue blandness, some thought there lurked adevilish charm, as for days and days we voyaged along, through seas sowearily, lonesomely mild, that all space, in repugnance to our vengefulerrand, seemed vacating itself of life before our urn-like prow.But, at last, when turning to the eastward, the Cape winds beganhowling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long, troubled seasthat are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to theblast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers ofsilver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all thisdesolate vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights moredismal than before.Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thitherbefore us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. Andevery morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; andspite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp,as though they deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; athing appointed to desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place fortheir homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heavedthe black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and the greatmundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and sufferingit had bred.Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye? Rather Cape Tormentoso, as calledof yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before hadattended us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, whereguilty beings transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemedcondemned to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store, or beatthat black air without any horizon. But calm, snow-white, andunvarying; still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky; stillbeckoning us on from before, the solitary jet would at times bedescried.During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab, though assuming forthe time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerousdeck, manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than everaddressed his mates. In tempestuous times like these, after everythingabove and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done butpassively to await the issue of the gale. Then Captain and crew becomepractical fatalists. So, with his ivory leg inserted into itsaccustomed hole, and with one hand firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab forhours and hours would stand gazing dead to windward, while anoccasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal his veryeyelashes together. Meantime, the crew driven from the forward part ofthe ship by the perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows,stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better toguard against the leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into asort of bowline secured to the rail, in which he swung as in a loosenedbelt. Few or no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned bypainted sailors in wax, day after day tore on through all the swiftmadness and gladness of the demoniac waves. By night the same mutenessof humanity before the shrieks of the ocean prevailed; still in silencethe men swung in the bowlines; still wordless Ahab stood up to theblast. Even when wearied nature seemed demanding repose he would notseek that repose in his hammock. Never could Starbuck forget the oldman’s aspect, when one night going down into the cabin to mark how thebarometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in hisfloor-screwed chair; the rain and half-melted sleet of the storm fromwhich he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from theunremoved hat and coat. On the table beside him lay unrolled one ofthose charts of tides and currents which have previously been spokenof. His lantern swung from his tightly clenched hand. Though the bodywas erect, the head was thrown back so that the closed eyes werepointed towards the needle of the tell-tale that swung from a beam inthe ceiling.**The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going tothe compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himselfof the course of the ship.Terrible old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in thisgale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruisingground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross)by name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at thefore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyroin the far ocean fisheries—a whaler at sea, and long absent from home.As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like theskeleton of a stranded walrus. All down her sides, this spectralappearance was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while allher spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furredover with hoar-frost. Only her lower sails were set. A wild sight itwas to see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads. Theyseemed clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raimentthat had survived nearly four years of cruising. Standing in iron hoopsnailed to the mast, they swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; andthough, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six menin the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leapedfrom the mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, thoseforlorn-looking fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said notone word to our own look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was beingheard from below.“Ship ahoy! Have ye seen the White Whale?”But as the strange captain, leaning over the pallid bulwarks, was inthe act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it somehow fell from hishand into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he in vain strove tomake himself heard without it. Meantime his ship was still increasingthe distance between. While in various silent ways the seamen of thePequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at thefirst mere mention of the White Whale’s name to another ship, Ahab fora moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered aboat to board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade. Buttaking advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet,and knowing by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketerand shortly bound home, he loudly hailed—“Ahoy there! This is thePequod, bound round the world! Tell them to address all future lettersto the Pacific ocean! and this time three years, if I am not at home,tell them to address them to ——”At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then,in accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish,that for some days before had been placidly swimming by our side,darted away with what seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselvesfore and aft with the stranger’s flanks. Though in the course of hiscontinual voyagings Ahab must often before have noticed a similarsight, yet, to any monomaniac man, the veriest trifles capriciouslycarry meanings.“Swim away from me, do ye?” murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.There seemed but little in the words, but the tone conveyed more ofdeep helpless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced.But turning to the steersman, who thus far had been holding the ship inthe wind to diminish her headway, he cried out in his old lionvoice,—“Up helm! Keep her off round the world!”Round the world! There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings;but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct? Only throughnumberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those thatwe left behind secure, were all the time before us.Were this world an endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could forever reach new distances, and discover sights more sweet and strangethan any Cyclades or Islands of King Solomon, then there were promisein the voyage. But in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of, or intormented chase of that demon phantom that, some time or other, swimsbefore all human hearts; while chasing such over this round globe, theyeither lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed.CHAPTER 53. The Gam.The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we hadspoken was this: the wind and sea betokened storms. But even had thisnot been the case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boardedher—judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions—if so it hadbeen that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained a negative answerto the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he cared notto consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain, except hecould contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought. Butall this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something saidhere of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each otherin foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or theequally desolate Salisbury Plain in England; if casually encounteringeach other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life ofthem, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a momentto interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while andresting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon theillimitable Pine Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whalingvessels descrying each other at the ends of the earth—off loneFanning’s Island, or the far away King’s Mills; how much more natural,I say, that under such circumstances these ships should not onlyinterchange hails, but come into still closer, more friendly andsociable contact. And especially would this seem to be a matter ofcourse, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whosecaptains, officers, and not a few of the men are personally known toeach other; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things totalk about.For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters onboard; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of adate a year or two later than the last one on her blurred andthumb-worn files. And in return for that courtesy, the outward-boundship would receive the latest whaling intelligence from thecruising-ground to which she may be destined, a thing of the utmostimportance to her. And in degree, all this will hold true concerningwhaling vessels crossing each other’s track on the cruising-grounditself, even though they are equally long absent from home. For one ofthem may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and nowfar remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people ofthe ship she now meets. Besides, they would exchange the whaling news,and have an agreeable chat. For not only would they meet with all thesympathies of sailors, but likewise with all the peculiarcongenialities arising from a common pursuit and mutually sharedprivations and perils.Nor would difference of country make any very essential difference;that is, so long as both parties speak one language, as is the casewith Americans and English. Though, to be sure, from the small numberof English whalers, such meetings do not very often occur, and whenthey do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them;for your Englishman is rather reserved, and your Yankee, he does notfancy that sort of thing in anybody but himself. Besides, the Englishwhalers sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over theAmerican whalers; regarding the long, lean Nantucketer, with hisnondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant. But where thissuperiority in the English whalemen does really consist, it would behard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, killmore whales than all the English, collectively, in ten years. But thisis a harmless little foible in the English whale-hunters, which theNantucketer does not take much to heart; probably, because he knowsthat he has a few foibles himself.So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the sea, thewhalers have most reason to be sociable—and they are so. Whereas, somemerchant ships crossing each other’s wake in the mid-Atlantic, willoftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition,mutually cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandiesin Broadway; and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticismupon each other’s rig. As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet atsea, they first go through such a string of silly bowings andscrapings, such a ducking of ensigns, that there does not seem to bemuch right-down hearty good-will and brotherly love about it at all. Astouching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are in such a prodigious hurry,they run away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates,when they chance to cross each other’s cross-bones, the first hailis—“How many skulls?”—the same way that whalers hail—“How manybarrels?” And that question once answered, pirates straightway steerapart, for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don’t like tosee overmuch of each other’s villanous likenesses.But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable,free-and-easy whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets anotherwhaler in any sort of decent weather? She has a “Gam,” a thing soutterly unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the nameeven; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only grin at it,and repeat gamesome stuff about “spouters” and “blubber-boilers,” andsuch like pretty exclamations. Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, andalso all Pirates and Man-of-War’s men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherishsuch a scornful feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question itwould be hard to answer. Because, in the case of pirates, say, I shouldlike to know whether that profession of theirs has any peculiar gloryabout it. It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only atthe gallows. And besides, when a man is elevated in that odd fashion,he has no proper foundation for his superior altitude. Hence, Iconclude, that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman,in that assertion the pirate has no solid basis to stand on.But what is a Gam? You might wear out your index-finger running upand down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word. Dr.Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster’s ark does nothold it. Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many yearsbeen in constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees.Certainly, it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into theLexicon. With that view, let me learnedly define it.GAM. NOUN—A social meeting of two (or more) Whaleships, generallyon a cruising-ground; when, after exchanging hails, they exchangevisits by boats’ crews: the two captains remaining, for the time, onboard of one ship, and the two chief mates on the other.There is another little item about Gamming which must not be forgottenhere. All professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; sohas the whale fishery. In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when thecaptain is rowed anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the sternsheets on a comfortable, sometimes cushioned seat there, and oftensteers himself with a pretty little milliner’s tiller decorated withgay cords and ribbons. But the whale-boat has no seat astern, no sofaof that sort whatever, and no tiller at all. High times indeed, ifwhaling captains were wheeled about the water on castors like gouty oldaldermen in patent chairs. And as for a tiller, the whale-boat neveradmits of any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a completeboat’s crew must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer orharpooneer is of the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon theoccasion, and the captain, having no place to sit in, is pulled off tohis visit all standing like a pine tree. And often you will notice thatbeing conscious of the eyes of the whole visible world resting on himfrom the sides of the two ships, this standing captain is all alive tothe importance of sustaining his dignity by maintaining his legs. Noris this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projectingsteering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, theafter-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front. He is thuscompletely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himselfsideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violentpitch of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length offoundation is nothing without corresponding breadth. Merely make aspread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up. Then, again,it would never do in plain sight of the world’s riveted eyes, it wouldnever do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadyinghimself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with hishands; indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, hegenerally carries his hands in his trowsers’ pockets; but perhaps beinggenerally very large, heavy hands, he carries them there for ballast.Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well authenticated onestoo, where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical momentor two, in a sudden squall say—to seize hold of the nearest oarsman’shair, and hold on there like grim death.CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho’s Story.(As told at the Golden Inn.)The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, ismuch like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meetmore travellers than in any other part.It was not very long after speaking the Goney that anotherhomeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho,* was encountered. She was mannedalmost wholly by Polynesians. In the short gam that ensued she gave usstrong news of Moby Dick. To some the general interest in the WhiteWhale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho’sstory, which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a certainwondrous, inverted visitation of one of those so called judgments ofGod which at times are said to overtake some men. This lattercircumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming what maybe called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, neverreached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part ofthe story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself. It was theprivate property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one ofwhom, it seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions ofsecrecy, but the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, andrevealed so much of it in that way, that when he was wakened he couldnot well withhold the rest. Nevertheless, so potent an influence didthis thing have on those seamen in the Pequod who came to the fullknowledge of it, and by such a strange delicacy, to call it so, werethey governed in this matter, that they kept the secret amongthemselves so that it never transpired abaft the Pequod’s main-mast.Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story aspublicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I nowproceed to put on lasting record.*The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head,still used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.For my humor’s sake, I shall preserve the style in which I oncenarrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish friends, onesaint’s eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the GoldenInn. Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, wereon the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions theyoccasionally put, and which are duly answered at the time.“Some two years prior to my first learning the events which I am aboutrehearsing to you, gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler of Nantucket,was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days’ sail eastwardfrom the eaves of this good Golden Inn. She was somewhere to thenorthward of the Line. One morning upon handling the pumps, accordingto daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her holdthan common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. Butthe captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare goodluck awaited him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse toquit them, and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous,though, indeed, they could not find it after searching the hold as lowdown as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continuedher cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easyintervals; but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only wasthe leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, thatnow taking some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for thenearest harbor among the islands, there to have his hull hove out andrepaired.“Though no small passage was before her, yet, if the commonest chancefavoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by theway, because his pumps were of the best, and being periodicallyrelieved at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep theship free; never mind if the leak should double on her. In truth, wellnigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperousbreezes, the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety ather port without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not beenfor the brutal overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and thebitterly provoked vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado fromBuffalo.“‘Lakeman!—Buffalo! Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?’said Don Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.“On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie, Don; but—I crave yourcourtesy—may be, you shall soon hear further of all that. Now,gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships, well-nigh aslarge and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to farManilla; this Lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yetbeen nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularlyconnected with the open ocean. For in their interflowing aggregate,those grand fresh-water seas of ours,—Erie, and Ontario, and Huron, andSuperior, and Michigan,—possess an ocean-like expansiveness, with manyof the ocean’s noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties ofraces and of climes. They contain round archipelagoes of romanticisles, even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored bytwo great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish longmaritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East,dotted all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon bybatteries, and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; theyhave heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, theyyield their beaches to wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flashfrom out their peltry wigwams; for leagues and leagues are flanked byancient and unentered forests, where the gaunt pines stand like serriedlines of kings in Gothic genealogies; those same woods harboring wildAfric beasts of prey, and silken creatures whose exported furs giverobes to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo andCleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float alike thefull-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the steamer,and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts asdireful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecksare, for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned fullmany a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew. Thus, gentlemen,though an inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-oceannurtured; as much of an audacious mariner as any. And for Radney,though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucketbeach, to nurse at his maternal sea; though in after life he had longfollowed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific; yet washe quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoodsseaman, fresh from the latitudes of buck-horn handled Bowie-knives. Yetwas this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and thisLakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet byinflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of humanrecognition which is the meanest slave’s right; thus treated, thisSteelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile. At all events, hehad proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, andSteelkilt—but, gentlemen, you shall hear.“It was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing herprow for her island haven, that the Town-Ho’s leak seemed againincreasing, but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumpsevery day. You must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like ourAtlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping theirwhole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should theofficer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, theprobability would be that he and his shipmates would never againremember it, on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom.Nor in the solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward,gentlemen, is it altogether unusual for ships to keep clanging at theirpump-handles in full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length;that is, if it lie along a tolerably accessible coast, or if any otherreasonable retreat is afforded them. It is only when a leaky vessel isin some very out of the way part of those waters, some really landlesslatitude, that her captain begins to feel a little anxious.“Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was foundgaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested byseveral of her company; especially by Radney the mate. He commanded theupper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every wayexpanded to the breeze. Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of acoward, and as little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensivenesstouching his own person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land oron sea that you can conveniently imagine, gentlemen. Therefore when hebetrayed this solicitude about the safety of the ship, some of theseamen declared that it was only on account of his being a part ownerin her. So when they were working that evening at the pumps, there wason this head no small gamesomeness slily going on among them, as theystood with their feet continually overflowed by the rippling clearwater; clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen—that bubbling from thepumps ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts atthe lee scupper-holes.“Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this conventionalworld of ours—watery or otherwise; that when a person placed in commandover his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly hissuperior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man heconceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have achance he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern’s tower, and makea little heap of dust of it. Be this conceit of mine as it may,gentlemen, at all events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with ahead like a Roman, and a flowing golden beard like the tasseledhousings of your last viceroy’s snorting charger; and a brain, and aheart, and a soul in him, gentlemen, which had made SteelkiltCharlemagne, had he been born son to Charlemagne’s father. But Radney,the mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn, as malicious.He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.“Espying the mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with therest, the Lakeman affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on withhis gay banterings.“‘Aye, aye, my merry lads, it’s a lively leak this; hold a cannikin,one of ye, and let’s have a taste. By the Lord, it’s worth bottling! Itell ye what, men, old Rad’s investment must go for it! he had best cutaway his part of the hull and tow it home. The fact is, boys, thatsword-fish only began the job; he’s come back again with a gang ofship-carpenters, saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and the wholeposse of ’em are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom;making improvements, I suppose. If old Rad were here now, I’d tell himto jump overboard and scatter ’em. They’re playing the devil with hisestate, I can tell him. But he’s a simple old soul,—Rad, and a beautytoo. Boys, they say the rest of his property is invested inlooking-glasses. I wonder if he’d give a poor devil like me the modelof his nose.’“‘Damn your eyes! what’s that pump stopping for?’ roared Radney,pretending not to have heard the sailors’ talk. ‘Thunder away at it!’“‘Aye, aye, sir,’ said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket. ‘Lively, boys,lively, now!’ And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines;the men tossed their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gaspingof the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life’sutmost energies.“Quitting the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman wentforward all panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his facefiery red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from hisbrow. Now what cozening fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radneyto meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperated state, I knownot; but so it happened. Intolerably striding along the deck, the matecommanded him to get a broom and sweep down the planks, and also ashovel, and remove some offensive matters consequent upon allowing apig to run at large.“Now, gentlemen, sweeping a ship’s deck at sea is a piece of householdwork which in all times but raging gales is regularly attended to everyevening; it has been known to be done in the case of ships actuallyfoundering at the time. Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility ofsea-usages and the instinctive love of neatness in seamen; some of whomwould not willingly drown without first washing their faces. But in allvessels this broom business is the prescriptive province of the boys,if boys there be aboard. Besides, it was the stronger men in theTown-Ho that had been divided into gangs, taking turns at the pumps;and being the most athletic seaman of them all, Steelkilt had beenregularly assigned captain of one of the gangs; consequently he shouldhave been freed from any trivial business not connected with trulynautical duties, such being the case with his comrades. I mention allthese particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affairstood between the two men.“But there was more than this: the order about the shovel was almost asplainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though Radney had spatin his face. Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship willunderstand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakemanfully comprehended when the mate uttered his command. But as he satstill for a moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate’smalignant eye and perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in himand the slow-match silently burning along towards them; as heinstinctively saw all this, that strange forbearance and unwillingnessto stir up the deeper passionateness in any already ireful being—arepugnance most felt, when felt at all, by really valiant men even whenaggrieved—this nameless phantom feeling, gentlemen, stole overSteelkilt.“Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a little broken by the bodilyexhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him saying that sweepingthe deck was not his business, and he would not do it. And then,without at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as thecustomary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had donelittle or nothing all day. To this, Radney replied with an oath, in amost domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating hiscommand; meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with anuplifted cooper’s club hammer which he had snatched from a cask nearby.“Heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, forall his first nameless feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkiltcould but ill brook this bearing in the mate; but somehow stillsmothering the conflagration within him, without speaking he remaineddoggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the incensed Radney shook thehammer within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to dohis bidding.“Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating round the windlass, steadilyfollowed by the mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeatedhis intention not to obey. Seeing, however, that his forbearance hadnot the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation withhis twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but itwas to no purpose. And in this way the two went once slowly round thewindlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking himthat he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, theLakeman paused on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer:“‘Mr. Radney, I will not obey you. Take that hammer away, or look toyourself.’ But the predestinated mate coming still closer to him, wherethe Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch ofhis teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of insufferable maledictions.Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in the eyewith the unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching hisright hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back, told hispersecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt) wouldmurder him. But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughterby the gods. Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instantthe lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatchspouting blood like a whale.“Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of the backstaysleading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing theirmastheads. They were both Canallers.“‘Canallers!’ cried Don Pedro. ‘We have seen many whale-ships in ourharbours, but never heard of your Canallers. Pardon: who and what arethey?’“‘Canallers, Don, are the boatmen belonging to our grand Erie Canal.You must have heard of it.’“‘Nay, Senor; hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditaryland, we know but little of your vigorous North.’“‘Aye? Well then, Don, refill my cup. Your chicha’s very fine; and ereproceeding further I will tell ye what our Canallers are; for suchinformation may throw side-light upon my story.’“For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entirebreadth of the state of New York; through numerous populous cities andmost thriving villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, andaffluent, cultivated fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-roomand bar-room; through the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Romanarches over Indian rivers; through sun and shade; by happy hearts orbroken; through all the wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawkcounties; and especially, by rows of snow-white chapels, whose spiresstand almost like milestones, flows one continual stream of Venetianlycorrupt and often lawless life. There’s your true Ashantee, gentlemen;there howl your pagans; where you ever find them, next door to you;under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronising lee of churches.For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your metropolitanfreebooters that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, sosinners, gentlemen, most abound in holiest vicinities.“‘Is that a friar passing?’ said Don Pedro, looking downwards into thecrowded plazza, with humorous concern.“‘Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella’s Inquisition wanes inLima,’ laughed Don Sebastian. ‘Proceed, Senor.’“‘A moment! Pardon!’ cried another of the company. ‘In the name of allus Limeese, I but desire to express to you, sir sailor, that we have byno means overlooked your delicacy in not substituting present Lima fordistant Venice in your corrupt comparison. Oh! do not bow and looksurprised; you know the proverb all along this coast—“Corrupt as Lima.”It but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful thanbilliard-tables, and for ever open—and “Corrupt as Lima.” So, too,Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St.Mark!—St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, youpour out again.’“Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller wouldmake a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked ishe. Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, floweryNile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheekedCleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore,all this effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canallerso proudly sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken hisgrand features. A terror to the smiling innocence of the villagesthrough which he floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are notunshunned in cities. Once a vagabond on his own canal, I have receivedgood turns from one of these Canallers; I thank him heartily; wouldfain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the prime redeemingqualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as stiff an armto back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy one. Insum, gentlemen, what the wildness of this canal life is, isemphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains somany of its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race ofmankind, except Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whalingcaptains. Nor does it at all diminish the curiousness of this matter,that to many thousands of our rural boys and young men born along itsline, the probationary life of the Grand Canal furnishes the soletransition between quietly reaping in a Christian corn-field, andrecklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric seas.“‘I see! I see!’ impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his chichaupon his silvery ruffles. ‘No need to travel! The world’s one Lima. Ihad thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations werecold and holy as the hills.—But the story.’“I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman shook the backstay. Hardlyhad he done so, when he was surrounded by the three junior mates andthe four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck. But sliding downthe ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into theuproar, and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle.Others of the sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twistedturmoil ensued; while standing out of harm’s way, the valiant captaindanced up and down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers tomanhandle that atrocious scoundrel, and smoke him along to thequarter-deck. At intervals, he ran close up to the revolving border ofthe confusion, and prying into the heart of it with his pike, sought toprick out the object of his resentment. But Steelkilt and hisdesperadoes were too much for them all; they succeeded in gaining theforecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large casksin a line with the windlass, these sea-Parisians entrenched themselvesbehind the barricade.“‘Come out of that, ye pirates!’ roared the captain, now menacing themwith a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the steward. ‘Comeout of that, ye cut-throats!’“Steelkilt leaped on the barricade, and striding up and down there,defied the worst the pistols could do; but gave the captain tounderstand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt’s) death would be the signalfor a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands. Fearing in his heartlest this might prove but too true, the captain a little desisted, butstill commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their duty.“‘Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?’ demanded theirringleader.“‘Turn to! turn to!—I make no promise;—to your duty! Do you want tosink the ship, by knocking off at a time like this? Turn to!’ and heonce more raised a pistol.“‘Sink the ship?’ cried Steelkilt. ‘Aye, let her sink. Not a man of usturns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. Whatsay ye, men?’ turning to his comrades. A fierce cheer was theirresponse.“The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eyeon the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these:—‘It’s not ourfault; we didn’t want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it wasboy’s business; he might have known me before this; I told him not toprick the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against hiscursed jaw; ain’t those mincing knives down in the forecastle there,men? look to those handspikes, my hearties. Captain, by God, look toyourself; say the word; don’t be a fool; forget it all; we are ready toturn to; treat us decently, and we’re your men; but we won’t beflogged.’“‘Turn to! I make no promises, turn to, I say!’“‘Look ye, now,’ cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him,‘there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who have shipped forthe cruise, d’ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim ourdischarge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don’t want a row; it’snot our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but wewon’t be flogged.’“‘Turn to!’ roared the Captain.“Steelkilt glanced round him a moment, and then said:—‘I tell you whatit is now, Captain, rather than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabbyrascal, we won’t lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us; but tillyou say the word about not flogging us, we don’t do a hand’s turn.’“‘Down into the forecastle then, down with ye, I’ll keep ye there tillye’re sick of it. Down ye go.’“‘Shall we?’ cried the ringleader to his men. Most of them were againstit; but at length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him downinto their dark den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.“As the Lakeman’s bare head was just level with the planks, the Captainand his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the slideof the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly calledfor the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to thecompanionway. Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whisperedsomething down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them—tenin number—leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far hadremained neutral.“All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward andaft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; atwhich last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, afterbreaking through the bulkhead below. But the hours of darkness passedin peace; the men who still remained at their duty toiling hard at thepumps, whose clinking and clanking at intervals through the drearynight dismally resounded through the ship.“At sunrise the Captain went forward, and knocking on the deck,summoned the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused. Water wasthen lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit weretossed after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it,the Captain returned to the quarter-deck. Twice every day for threedays this was repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling,and then a scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered;and suddenly four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they wereready to turn to. The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet,united perhaps to some fears of ultimate retribution, had constrainedthem to surrender at discretion. Emboldened by this, the Captainreiterated his demand to the rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him aterrific hint to stop his babbling and betake himself where hebelonged. On the fifth morning three others of the mutineers bolted upinto the air from the desperate arms below that sought to restrainthem. Only three were left.“‘Better turn to, now?’ said the Captain with a heartless jeer.“‘Shut us up again, will ye!’ cried Steelkilt.“‘Oh certainly,’ said the Captain, and the key clicked.“It was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection ofseven of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that hadlast hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place asblack as the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed tothe two Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burstout of their hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed withtheir keen mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with ahandle at each end) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and ifby any devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. Forhimself, he would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not.That was the last night he should spend in that den. But the scheme metwith no opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they wereready for that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but asurrender. And what was more, they each insisted upon being the firstman on deck, when the time to make the rush should come. But to thistheir leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself;particularly as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the other,in the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladderwould but admit one man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul playof these miscreants must come out.“Upon hearing the frantic project of their leader, each in his ownseparate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem, upon the same pieceof treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out, in order to bethe first of the three, though the last of the ten, to surrender; andthereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct mightmerit. But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to leadthem to the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry ofvillany, mixed their before secret treacheries together; and when theirleader fell into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other inthree sentences; and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him withcords; and shrieked out for the Captain at midnight.“Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, heand all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle. In afew minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand and foot, the stillstruggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his perfidiousallies, who at once claimed the honor of securing a man who had beenfully ripe for murder. But all these were collared, and dragged alongthe deck like dead cattle; and, side by side, were seized up into themizzen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there they hung tillmorning. ‘Damn ye,’ cried the Captain, pacing to and fro before them,‘the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!’“At sunrise he summoned all hands; and separating those who hadrebelled from those who had taken no part in the mutiny, he told theformer that he had a good mind to flog them all round—thought, upon thewhole, he would do so—he ought to—justice demanded it; but for thepresent, considering their timely surrender, he would let them go witha reprimand, which he accordingly administered in the vernacular.“‘But as for you, ye carrion rogues,’ turning to the three men in therigging—‘for you, I mean to mince ye up for the try-pots;’ and, seizinga rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs of the twotraitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their headssideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.“‘My wrist is sprained with ye!’ he cried, at last; ‘but there is stillrope enough left for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn’t give up. Takethat gag from his mouth, and let us hear what he can say for himself.’“For a moment the exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of hiscramped jaws, and then painfully twisting round his head, said in asort of hiss, ‘What I say is this—and mind it well—if you flog me, Imurder you!’“‘Say ye so? then see how ye frighten me’—and the Captain drew off withthe rope to strike.“‘Best not,’ hissed the Lakeman.“‘But I must,’—and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke.“Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain;who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deckrapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope,said, ‘I won’t do it—let him go—cut him down: d’ye hear?’“But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a paleman, with a bandaged head, arrested them—Radney the chief mate. Eversince the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing thetumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched thewhole scene. Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardlyspeak; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to dowhat the captain dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advancedto his pinioned foe.“‘You are a coward!’ hissed the Lakeman.“‘So I am, but take that.’ The mate was in the very act of striking,when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm. He paused: and then pausingno more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt’s threat, whatever thatmight have been. The three men were then cut down, all hands wereturned to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron pumpsclanged as before.“Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired below, a clamorwas heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors running up,besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the crew.Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their owninstance they were put down in the ship’s run for salvation. Still, nosign of mutiny reappeared among the rest. On the contrary, it seemed,that mainly at Steelkilt’s instigation, they had resolved to maintainthe strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when theship reached port, desert her in a body. But in order to insure thespeediest end to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing—namely,not to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered. For,spite of her leak, and spite of all her other perils, the Town-Ho stillmaintained her mast-heads, and her captain was just as willing to lowerfor a fish that moment, as on the day his craft first struck thecruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite as ready to change hisberth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death thevital jaw of the whale.“But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort ofpassiveness in their conduct, he kept his own counsel (at least tillall was over) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon theman who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart. He was in Radneythe chief mate’s watch; and as if the infatuated man sought to run morethan half way to meet his doom, after the scene at the rigging, heinsisted, against the express counsel of the captain, upon resuming thehead of his watch at night. Upon this, and one or two othercircumstances, Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.“During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on thebulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale ofthe boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship’s side. Inthis attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed. There was aconsiderable vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down betweenthis was the sea. Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that hisnext trick at the helm would come round at two o’clock, in the morningof the third day from that in which he had been betrayed. At hisleisure, he employed the interval in braiding something very carefullyin his watches below.“‘What are you making there?’ said a shipmate.“‘What do you think? what does it look like?’“‘Like a lanyard for your bag; but it’s an odd one, seems to me.’“‘Yes, rather oddish,’ said the Lakeman, holding it at arm’s lengthbefore him; ‘but I think it will answer. Shipmate, I haven’t enoughtwine,—have you any?’“But there was none in the forecastle.“‘Then I must get some from old Rad;’ and he rose to go aft.“‘You don’t mean to go a begging to him!’ said a sailor.“‘Why not? Do you think he won’t do me a turn, when it’s to helphimself in the end, shipmate?’ and going to the mate, he looked at himquietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was givenhim—neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night aniron ball, closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of theLakeman’s monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammockfor a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at the silenthelm—nigh to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always readydug to the seaman’s hand—that fatal hour was then to come; and in thefore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark andstretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.“But, gentlemen, a fool saved the would-be murderer from the bloodydeed he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being theavenger. For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step into take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would havedone.“It was just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the secondday, when they were washing down the decks, that a stupid Teneriffeman, drawing water in the main-chains, all at once shouted out, ‘Thereshe rolls! there she rolls!’ Jesu, what a whale! It was Moby Dick.“‘Moby Dick!’ cried Don Sebastian; ‘St. Dominic! Sir sailor, but dowhales have christenings? Whom call you Moby Dick?’“‘A very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;—butthat would be too long a story.’“‘How? how?’ cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.“‘Nay, Dons, Dons—nay, nay! I cannot rehearse that now. Let me get moreinto the air, Sirs.’“‘The chicha! the chicha!’ cried Don Pedro; ‘our vigorous friend looksfaint;—fill up his empty glass!’“No need, gentlemen; one moment, and I proceed.—Now, gentlemen, sosuddenly perceiving the snowy whale within fifty yards of theship—forgetful of the compact among the crew—in the excitement of themoment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily liftedhis voice for the monster, though for some little time past it had beenplainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads. All was now a phrensy.‘The White Whale—the White Whale!’ was the cry from captain, mates, andharpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumours, were all anxious tocapture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyedaskance, and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass,that lit up by a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like aliving opal in the blue morning sea. Gentlemen, a strange fatalitypervades the whole career of these events, as if verily mapped outbefore the world itself was charted. The mutineer was the bowsman ofthe mate, and when fast to a fish, it was his duty to sit next him,while Radney stood up with his lance in the prow, and haul in orslacken the line, at the word of command. Moreover, when the four boatswere lowered, the mate’s got the start; and none howled more fiercelywith delight than did Steelkilt, as he strained at his oar. After astiff pull, their harpooneer got fast, and, spear in hand, Radneysprang to the bow. He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat.And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale’s topmost back.Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a blindingfoam that blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boatstruck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out thestanding mate. That instant, as he fell on the whale’s slippery back,the boat righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney wastossed over into the sea, on the other flank of the whale. He struckout through the spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through thatveil, wildly seeking to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. Butthe whale rushed round in a sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmerbetween his jaws; and rearing high up with him, plunged headlong again,and went down.“Meantime, at the first tap of the boat’s bottom, the Lakeman hadslackened the line, so as to drop astern from the whirlpool; calmlylooking on, he thought his own thoughts. But a sudden, terrific,downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. Hecut it; and the whale was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick roseagain, with some tatters of Radney’s red woollen shirt, caught in theteeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but thewhale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.“In good time, the Town-Ho reached her port—a savage, solitaryplace—where no civilized creature resided. There, headed by theLakeman, all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately desertedamong the palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large doublewar-canoe of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor.“The ship’s company being reduced to but a handful, the captain calledupon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heavingdown the ship to stop the leak. But to such unresting vigilance overtheir dangerous allies was this small band of whites necessitated, bothby night and by day, and so extreme was the hard work they underwent,that upon the vessel being ready again for sea, they were in such aweakened condition that the captain durst not put off with them in soheavy a vessel. After taking counsel with his officers, he anchored theship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two cannonfrom the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning theIslanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man withhim, and setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straightbefore the wind for Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure areinforcement to his crew.“On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, whichseemed to have touched at a low isle of corals. He steered away fromit; but the savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice ofSteelkilt hailed him to heave to, or he would run him under water. Thecaptain presented a pistol. With one foot on each prow of the yokedwar-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if thepistol so much as clicked in the lock, he would bury him in bubbles andfoam.“‘What do you want of me?’ cried the captain.“‘Where are you bound? and for what are you bound?’ demanded Steelkilt;‘no lies.’“‘I am bound to Tahiti for more men.’“‘Very good. Let me board you a moment—I come in peace.’ With that heleaped from the canoe, swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale,stood face to face with the captain.“‘Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head. Now, repeat after me. Assoon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonderisland, and remain there six days. If I do not, may lightnings strikeme!’“‘A pretty scholar,’ laughed the Lakeman. ‘Adios, Senor!’ and leapinginto the sea, he swam back to his comrades.“Watching the boat till it was fairly beached, and drawn up to theroots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail again, and in duetime arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination. There, luckbefriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and wereprovidentially in want of precisely that number of men which the sailorheaded. They embarked; and so for ever got the start of their formercaptain, had he been at all minded to work them legal retribution.“Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat arrived,and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilizedTahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea. Chartering a smallnative schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding allright there, again resumed his cruisings.“Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know; but upon the island ofNantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses togive up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale thatdestroyed him. * * * *“‘Are you through?’ said Don Sebastian, quietly.“‘I am, Don.’“‘Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,this your story is in substance really true? It is so passingwonderful! Did you get it from an unquestionable source? Bear with meif I seem to press.’“‘Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in DonSebastian’s suit,’ cried the company, with exceeding interest.“‘Is there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn,gentlemen?’“‘Nay,’ said Don Sebastian; ‘but I know a worthy priest near by, whowill quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised?this may grow too serious.’“‘Will you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?’“‘Though there are no Auto-da-Fés in Lima now,’ said one of the companyto another; ‘I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight. I see no need of this.’“‘Excuse me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also begthat you will be particular in procuring the largest sized Evangelistsyou can.’* * * * * *“‘This is the priest, he brings you the Evangelists,’ said DonSebastian, gravely, returning with a tall and solemn figure.“‘Let me remove my hat. Now, venerable priest, further into the light,and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it.“‘So help me Heaven, and on my honor the story I have told ye,gentlemen, is in substance and its great items, true. I know it to betrue; it happened on this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; Ihave seen and talked with Steelkilt since the death of Radney.’”CHAPTER 55. Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales.I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas,something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to theeye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is mooredalongside the whale-ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there.It may be worth while, therefore, previously to advert to those curiousimaginary portraits of him which even down to the present dayconfidently challenge the faith of the landsman. It is time to set theworld right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale allwrong.It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions willbe found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures. Forever since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marblepanellings of temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields,medallions, cups, and coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales ofchain-armor like Saladin’s, and a helmeted head like St. George’s; eversince then has something of the same sort of license prevailed, notonly in most popular pictures of the whale, but in many scientificpresentations of him.Now, by all odds, the most ancient extant portrait anyways purportingto be the whale’s, is to be found in the famous cavern-pagoda ofElephanta, in India. The Brahmins maintain that in the almost endlesssculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all the trades and pursuits,every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages before any ofthem actually came into being. No wonder then, that in some sort ournoble profession of whaling should have been there shadowed forth. TheHindoo whale referred to, occurs in a separate department of the wall,depicting the incarnation of Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedlyknown as the Matse Avatar. But though this sculpture is half man andhalf whale, so as only to give the tail of the latter, yet that smallsection of him is all wrong. It looks more like the tapering tail of ananaconda, than the broad palms of the true whale’s majestic flukes.But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great Christianpainter’s portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than theantediluvian Hindoo. It is Guido’s picture of Perseus rescuingAndromeda from the sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get the modelof such a strange creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting thesame scene in his own “Perseus Descending,” make out one whit better.The huge corpulence of that Hogarthian monster undulates on thesurface, scarcely drawing one inch of water. It has a sort of howdah onits back, and its distended tusked mouth into which the billows arerolling, might be taken for the Traitors’ Gate leading from the Thamesby water into the Tower. Then, there are the Prodromus whales of oldScotch Sibbald, and Jonah’s whale, as depicted in the prints of oldBibles and the cuts of old primers. What shall be said of these? As forthe book-binder’s whale winding like a vine-stalk round the stock of adescending anchor—as stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages ofmany books both old and new—that is a very picturesque but purelyfabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures onantique vases. Though universally denominated a dolphin, I neverthelesscall this book-binder’s fish an attempt at a whale; because it was sointended when the device was first introduced. It was introduced by anold Italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during theRevival of Learning; and in those days, and even down to acomparatively late period, dolphins were popularly supposed to be aspecies of the Leviathan.In the vignettes and other embellishments of some ancient books youwill at times meet with very curious touches at the whale, where allmanner of spouts, jets d’eau, hot springs and cold, Saratoga andBaden-Baden, come bubbling up from his unexhausted brain. In thetitle-page of the original edition of the “Advancement of Learning” youwill find some curious whales.But quitting all these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at thosepictures of leviathan purporting to be sober, scientific delineations,by those who know. In old Harris’s collection of voyages there are someplates of whales extracted from a Dutch book of voyages, A.D. 1671,entitled “A Whaling Voyage to Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in theWhale, Peter Peterson of Friesland, master.” In one of those plates thewhales, like great rafts of logs, are represented lying amongice-isles, with white bears running over their living backs. In anotherplate, the prodigious blunder is made of representing the whale withperpendicular flukes.Then again, there is an imposing quarto, written by one CaptainColnett, a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled “A Voyage roundCape Horn into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending theSpermaceti Whale Fisheries.” In this book is an outline purporting tobe a “Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale fromone killed on the coast of Mexico, August, 1793, and hoisted on deck.”I doubt not the captain had this veracious picture taken for thebenefit of his marines. To mention but one thing about it, let me saythat it has an eye which applied, according to the accompanying scale,to a full grown sperm whale, would make the eye of that whale abow-window some five feet long. Ah, my gallant captain, why did ye notgive us Jonah looking out of that eye!Nor are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for thebenefit of the young and tender, free from the same heinousness ofmistake. Look at that popular work “Goldsmith’s Animated Nature.” Inthe abridged London edition of 1807, there are plates of an alleged“whale” and a “narwhale.” I do not wish to seem inelegant, but thisunsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow; and, as for thenarwhale, one glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in thisnineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine uponany intelligent public of schoolboys.Then, again, in 1825, Bernard Germain, Count de Lacépède, a greatnaturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein areseveral pictures of the different species of the Leviathan. All theseare not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenlandwhale (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a longexperienced man as touching that species, declares not to have itscounterpart in nature.But the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business wasreserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famousBaron. In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which hegives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing thatpicture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summaryretreat from Nantucket. In a word, Frederick Cuvier’s Sperm Whale isnot a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit ofa whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived thatpicture, who can tell? Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessorin the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; thatis, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with thepencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.As for the sign-painters’ whales seen in the streets hanging over theshops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them? They are generallyRichard III. whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage;breakfasting on three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full ofmariners: their deformities floundering in seas of blood and bluepaint.But these manifold mistakes in depicting the whale are not so verysurprising after all. Consider! Most of the scientific drawings havebeen taken from the stranded fish; and these are about as correct as adrawing of a wrecked ship, with broken back, would correctly representthe noble animal itself in all its undashed pride of hull and spars.Though elephants have stood for their full-lengths, the livingLeviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait. Theliving whale, in his full majesty and significance, is only to be seenat sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of him is outof sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that elementit is a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodilyinto the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations.And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of contourbetween a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan;yet, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to aship’s deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varyingshape of him, that his precise expression the devil himself could notcatch.But it may be fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the strandedwhale, accurate hints may be derived touching his true form. Not atall. For it is one of the more curious things about this Leviathan,that his skeleton gives very little idea of his general shape. ThoughJeremy Bentham’s skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in the library ofone of his executors, correctly conveys the idea of a burly-browedutilitarian old gentleman, with all Jeremy’s other leading personalcharacteristics; yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from anyleviathan’s articulated bones. In fact, as the great Hunter says, themere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fullyinvested and padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that soroundingly envelopes it. This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in thehead, as in some part of this book will be incidentally shown. It isalso very curiously displayed in the side fin, the bones of whichalmost exactly answer to the bones of the human hand, minus only thethumb. This fin has four regular bone-fingers, the index, middle, ring,and little finger. But all these are permanently lodged in their fleshycovering, as the human fingers in an artificial covering. “Howeverrecklessly the whale may sometimes serve us,” said humorous Stubb oneday, “he can never be truly said to handle us without mittens.”For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must needsconclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the worldwhich must remain unpainted to the last. True, one portrait may hit themark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any veryconsiderable degree of exactness. So there is no earthly way of findingout precisely what the whale really looks like. And the only mode inwhich you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is bygoing a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk ofbeing eternally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, it seems to me youhad best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching thisLeviathan.CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the TruePictures of Whaling Scenes.In connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, I am stronglytempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of themwhich are to be found in certain books, both ancient and modern,especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc. But I passthat matter by.I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale;Colnett’s, Huggins’s, Frederick Cuvier’s, and Beale’s. In the previouschapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to. Huggins’s is farbetter than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale’s is the best. AllBeale’s drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure inthe picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his secondchapter. His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though nodoubt calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, isadmirably correct and life-like in its general effect. Some of theSperm Whale drawings in J. Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour;but they are wretchedly engraved. That is not his fault though.Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but theyare drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression. He hasbut one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad deficiency,because it is by such pictures only, when at all well done, that youcan derive anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen byhis living hunters.But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though in some detailsnot the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling scenes to beanywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed, andtaken from paintings by one Garnery. Respectively, they representattacks on the Sperm and Right Whale. In the first engraving a nobleSperm Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneaththe boat from the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in theair upon his back the terrific wreck of the stoven planks. The prow ofthe boat is partially unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon themonster’s spine; and standing in that prow, for that one singleincomputable flash of time, you behold an oarsman, half shrouded by theincensed boiling spout of the whale, and in the act of leaping, as iffrom a precipice. The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good andtrue. The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened sea; the woodenpoles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads of theswimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressionsof affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearingdown upon the scene. Serious fault might be found with the anatomicaldetails of this whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, Icould not draw so good a one.In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing alongsidethe barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls hisblack weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from thePatagonian cliffs. His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; sothat from so abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think theremust be a brave supper cooking in the great bowels below. Sea fowls arepecking at the small crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies andmaccaroni, which the Right Whale sometimes carries on his pestilentback. And all the while the thick-lipped leviathan is rushing throughthe deep, leaving tons of tumultuous white curds in his wake, andcausing the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff caught nighthe paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer. Thus, the foreground is allraging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is theglassy level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of thepowerless ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conqueredfortress, with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-poleinserted into his spout-hole.Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it hewas either practically conversant with his subject, or elsemarvellously tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are thelads for painting action. Go and gaze upon all the paintings of Europe,and where will you find such a gallery of living and breathingcommotion on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where thebeholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the consecutive greatbattles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the NorthernLights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like acharge of crowned centaurs? Not wholly unworthy of a place in thatgallery, are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.The natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness ofthings seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravingsthey have of their whaling scenes. With not one tenth of England’sexperience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of that of theAmericans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the onlyfinished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of thewhale hunt. For the most part, the English and American whaledraughtsmen seem entirely content with presenting the mechanicaloutline of things, such as the vacant profile of the whale; which, sofar as picturesqueness of effect is concerned, is about tantamount tosketching the profile of a pyramid. Even Scoresby, the justly renownedRight whaleman, after giving us a stiff full length of the Greenlandwhale, and three or four delicate miniatures of narwhales andporpoises, treats us to a series of classical engravings of boat hooks,chopping knives, and grapnels; and with the microscopic diligence of aLeuwenhoeck submits to the inspection of a shivering world ninety-sixfac-similes of magnified Arctic snow crystals. I mean no disparagementto the excellent voyager (I honor him for a veteran), but in soimportant a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have procuredfor every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice ofthe Peace.In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are two otherFrench engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes himself“H. Durand.” One of them, though not precisely adapted to our presentpurpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other accounts. It is a quietnoon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French whaler anchored,inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the loosenedsails of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the background,both drooping together in the breezeless air. The effect is very fine,when considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermenunder one of their few aspects of oriental repose. The other engravingis quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and inthe very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside;the vessel (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if toa quay; and a boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity,is about giving chase to whales in the distance. The harpoons andlances lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast inits hole; while from a sudden roll of the sea, the little craft standshalf-erect out of the water, like a rearing horse. From the ship, thesmoke of the torments of the boiling whale is going up like the smokeover a village of smithies; and to windward, a black cloud, rising upwith earnest of squalls and rains, seems to quicken the activity of theexcited seamen.CHAPTER 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; inStone; in Mountains; in Stars.On Tower-hill, as you go down to the London docks, you may have seen acrippled beggar (or kedger, as the sailors say) holding a paintedboard before him, representing the tragic scene in which he lost hisleg. There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats(presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) isbeing crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale. Any time these tenyears, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibitedthat stump to an incredulous world. But the time of his justificationhas now come. His three whales are as good whales as were everpublished in Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable astump as any you will find in the western clearings. But, though forever mounted on that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whalemanmake; but, with downcast eyes, stands ruefully contemplating his ownamputation.Throughout the Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and SagHarbor, you will come across lively sketches of whales andwhaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on SpermWhale-teeth, or ladies’ busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, andother like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerouslittle ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the roughmaterial, in their hours of ocean leisure. Some of them have littleboxes of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for theskrimshandering business. But, in general, they toil with theirjack-knives alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor,they will turn you out anything you please, in the way of a mariner’sfancy.Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a manto that condition in which God placed him, i.e. what is calledsavagery. Your true whale-hunter is as much a savage as an Iroquois. Imyself am a savage, owning no allegiance but to the King of theCannibals; and ready at any moment to rebel against him.Now, one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestichours, is his wonderful patience of industry. An ancient Hawaiianwar-club or spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration ofcarving, is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.For, with but a bit of broken sea-shell or a shark’s tooth, thatmiraculous intricacy of wooden net-work has been achieved; and it hascost steady years of steady application.As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage. With thesame marvellous patience, and with the same single shark’s tooth, ofhis one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, notquite as workmanlike, but as close packed in its maziness of design, asthe Greek savage, Achilles’s shield; and full of barbaric spirit andsuggestiveness, as the prints of that fine old Dutch savage, AlbertDurer.Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out of the small dark slabs ofthe noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met with in theforecastles of American whalers. Some of them are done with muchaccuracy.At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales hungby the tail for knockers to the road-side door. When the porter issleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best. But these knocking whalesare seldom remarkable as faithful essays. On the spires of someold-fashioned churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there forweather-cocks; but they are so elevated, and besides that are to allintents and purposes so labelled with “Hands off!” you cannot examinethem closely enough to decide upon their merit.In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of high brokencliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the plain,you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of theLeviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks againstthem in a surf of green surges.Then, again, in mountainous countries where the traveller iscontinually girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there fromsome lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of theprofiles of whales defined along the undulating ridges. But you must bea thorough whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if youwish to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take theexact intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand-point,else so chance-like are such observations of the hills, that yourprecise, previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery;like the Soloma Islands, which still remain incognita, though oncehigh-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera chronicled them.Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to trace outgreat whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; aswhen long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armieslocked in battle among the clouds. Thus at the North have I chasedLeviathan round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the brightpoints that first defined him to me. And beneath the effulgentAntarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis, and joined the chaseagainst the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of Hydrus andthe Flying Fish.With a frigate’s anchors for my bridle-bitts and fasces of harpoons forspurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost skies, tosee whether the fabled heavens with all their countless tents reallylie encamped beyond my mortal sight!CHAPTER 58. Brit.Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we fell in with vast meadowsof brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which the Right Whalelargely feeds. For leagues and leagues it undulated round us, so thatwe seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and goldenwheat.On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure fromthe attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishlyswam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of thatwondrous Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separatedfrom the water that escaped at the lip.As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and seethingly advance theirscythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads; even so thesemonsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and leavingbehind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.**That part of the sea known among whalemen as the “Brazil Banks” doesnot bear that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of therebeing shallows and soundings there, but because of this remarkablemeadow-like appearance, caused by the vast drifts of brit continuallyfloating in those latitudes, where the Right Whale is often chased.But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which atall reminded one of mowers. Seen from the mast-heads, especially whenthey paused and were stationary for a while, their vast black formslooked more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else. And as inthe great hunting countries of India, the stranger at a distance willsometimes pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing themto be such, taking them for bare, blackened elevations of the soil;even so, often, with him, who for the first time beholds this speciesof the leviathans of the sea. And even when recognised at last, theirimmense magnitude renders it very hard really to believe that suchbulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all parts, withthe same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse.Indeed, in other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of thedeep with the same feelings that you do those of the shore. For thoughsome old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land areof their kind in the sea; and though taking a broad general view of thething, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, forexample, does the ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answers tothe sagacious kindness of the dog? The accursed shark alone can in anygeneric respect be said to bear comparative analogy to him.But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants of the seashave ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial andrepelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita,so that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover hisone superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific ofall mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallentens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters;though but a moment’s consideration will teach, that however baby manmay brag of his science and skill, and however much, in a flatteringfuture, that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever,to the crack of doom, the sea will insult and murder him, and pulverizethe stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; nevertheless, by thecontinual repetition of these very impressions, man has lost that senseof the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it.The first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguesevengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow.That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked shipsof last year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah’s flood is not yet subsided;two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not amiracle upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews,when under the feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened andswallowed them up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but inprecisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews.But not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but itis also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host whomurdered his own guests; sparing not the creatures which itself hathspawned. Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays herown cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against therocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks ofships. No mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snortinglike a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless oceanoverruns the globe.Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded creaturesglide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherouslyhidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure. Consider also the devilishbrilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as thedainty embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, oncemore, the universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures preyupon each other, carrying on eternal war since the world began.Consider all this; and then turn to this green, gentle, and most docileearth; consider them both, the sea and the land; and do you not find astrange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling oceansurrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies oneinsular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all thehorrors of the half known life. God keep thee! Push not off from thatisle, thou canst never return!CHAPTER 59. Squid.Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the Pequod still held on herway north-eastward towards the island of Java; a gentle air impellingher keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three tall taperingmasts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms on aplain. And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,alluring jet would be seen.But one transparent blue morning, when a stillness almost preternaturalspread over the sea, however unattended with any stagnant calm; whenthe long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a golden finger laidacross them, enjoining some secrecy; when the slippered waves whisperedtogether as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the visiblesphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher andhigher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed beforeour prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills. Thus glisteningfor a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose,and silently gleamed. It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?thought Daggoo. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing oncemore, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod,the negro yelled out—“There! there again! there she breaches! rightahead! The White Whale, the White Whale!”Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time thebees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood onthe bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wavehis orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the directionindicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo.Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet hadgradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect theideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particularwhale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness betrayedhim; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctlyperceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gaveorders for lowering.The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab’s in advance, and allswiftly pulling towards their prey. Soon it went down, and while, withoars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo! in the same spotwhere it sank, once more it slowly rose. Almost forgetting for themoment all thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrousphenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind. Avast pulpy mass, furlongs in length and breadth, of a glancingcream-colour, lay floating on the water, innumerable long armsradiating from its centre, and curling and twisting like a nest ofanacondas, as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach.No perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token ofeither sensation or instinct; but undulated there on the billows, anunearthly, formless, chance-like apparition of life.As with a low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck stillgazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild voiceexclaimed—“Almost rather had I seen Moby Dick and fought him, than tohave seen thee, thou white ghost!”“What was it, Sir?” said Flask.“The great live squid, which, they say, few whale-ships ever beheld,and returned to their ports to tell of it.”But Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel;the rest as silently following.Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connectedwith the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse of itbeing so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it withportentousness. So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of themdeclare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very fewof them have any but the most vague ideas concerning its true natureand form; notwithstanding, they believe it to furnish to the spermwhale his only food. For though other species of whales find their foodabove water, and may be seen by man in the act of feeding, thespermaceti whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones below thesurface; and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what,precisely, that food consists. At times, when closely pursued, he willdisgorge what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; someof them thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length. Theyfancy that the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clingsby them to the bed of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike otherspecies, is supplied with teeth in order to attack and tear it.There seems some ground to imagine that the great Kraken of BishopPontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into Squid. The manner inwhich the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising and sinking, withsome other particulars he narrates, in all this the two correspond. Butmuch abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible bulk heassigns it.By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the mysteriouscreature, here spoken of, it is included among the class ofcuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it wouldseem to belong, but only as the Anak of the tribe.CHAPTER 60. The Line.With reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described, as well asfor the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented,I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible whale-line.The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp, slightlyvapored with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the case of ordinaryropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliableto the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more convenient tothe sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinaryquantity too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to whichit must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar ingeneral by no means adds to the rope’s durability or strength, howevermuch it may give it compactness and gloss.Of late years the Manilla rope has in the American fishery almostentirely superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though notso durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far more soft and elastic; andI will add (since there is an æsthetics in all things), is much morehandsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, darkfellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassianto behold.The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At firstsight, you would not think it so strong as it really is. By experimentits one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred andtwenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equalto three tons. In length, the common sperm whale-line measuressomething over two hundred fathoms. Towards the stern of the boat it isspirally coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a stillthough, but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of denselybedded “sheaves,” or layers of concentric spiralizations, without anyhollow but the “heart,” or minute vertical tube formed at the axis ofthe cheese. As the least tangle or kink in the coiling would, inrunning out, infallibly take somebody’s arm, leg, or entire body off,the utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in its tub. Someharpooneers will consume almost an entire morning in this business,carrying the line high aloft and then reeving it downwards through ablock towards the tub, so as in the act of coiling to free it from allpossible wrinkles and twists.In the English boats two tubs are used instead of one; the same linebeing continuously coiled in both tubs. There is some advantage inthis; because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more readily intothe boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American tub,nearly three feet in diameter and of proportionate depth, makes arather bulky freight for a craft whose planks are but one half-inch inthickness; for the bottom of the whale-boat is like critical ice, whichwill bear up a considerable distributed weight, but not very much of aconcentrated one. When the painted canvas cover is clapped on theAmerican line-tub, the boat looks as if it were pulling off with aprodigious great wedding-cake to present to the whales.Both ends of the line are exposed; the lower end terminating in aneye-splice or loop coming up from the bottom against the side of thetub, and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything.This arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts. First:In order to facilitate the fastening to it of an additional line from aneighboring boat, in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as tothreaten to carry off the entire line originally attached to theharpoon. In these instances, the whale of course is shifted like a mugof ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the firstboat always hovers at hand to assist its consort. Second: Thisarrangement is indispensable for common safety’s sake; for were thelower end of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were thewhale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single, smokingminute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomedboat would infallibly be dragged down after him into the profundity ofthe sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again.Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line istaken aft from the tub, and passing round the loggerhead there, isagain carried forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswiseupon the loom or handle of every man’s oar, so that it jogs against hiswrist in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they alternatelysit at the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in theextreme pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the sizeof a common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From the chocks ithangs in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside theboat again; and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) beingcoiled upon the box in the bows, it continues its way to the gunwalestill a little further aft, and is then attached to the short-warp—therope which is immediately connected with the harpoon; but previous tothat connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry mystifications tootedious to detail.Thus the whale-line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils,twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction. All theoarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so that to the timideye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with the deadliestsnakes sportively festooning their limbs. Nor can any son of mortalwoman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies,and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at anyunknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horriblecontortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thuscircumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bonesto quiver in him like a shaken jelly. Yet habit—strange thing! whatcannot habit accomplish?—Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes,and brighter repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than youwill hear over the half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thushung in hangman’s nooses; and, like the six burghers of Calais beforeKing Edward, the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws ofdeath, with a halter around every neck, as you may say.Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for thoserepeated whaling disasters—some few of which are casually chronicled—ofthis man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line, and lost.For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat, islike being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of asteam-engine in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, andwheel, is grazing you. It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless inthe heart of these perils, because the boat is rocking like a cradle,and you are pitched one way and the other, without the slightestwarning; and only by a certain self-adjusting buoyancy andsimultaneousness of volition and action, can you escape being made aMazeppa of, and run away with where the all-seeing sun himself couldnever pierce you out.Again: as the profound calm which only apparently precedes andprophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; andcontains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatalpowder, and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of theline, as it silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being broughtinto actual play—this is a thing which carries more of true terror thanany other aspect of this dangerous affair. But why say more? All menlive enveloped in whale-lines. All are born with halters round theirnecks; but it is only when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death,that mortals realize the silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.And if you be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you wouldnot at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated beforeyour evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side.CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents, toQueequeg it was quite a different object.“When you see him ’quid,” said the savage, honing his harpoon in thebow of his hoisted boat, “then you quick see him ’parm whale.”The next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing specialto engage them, the Pequod’s crew could hardly resist the spell ofsleep induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Oceanthrough which we then were voyaging is not what whalemen call a livelyground; that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins,flying-fish, and other vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, thanthose off the Rio de la Plata, or the in-shore ground off Peru.It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and with my shouldersleaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayedin what seemed an enchanted air. No resolution could withstand it; inthat dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul went out ofmy body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum will,long after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that theseamen at the main and mizzen-mast-heads were already drowsy. So thatat last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for everyswing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumberinghelmsman. The waves, too, nodded their indolent crests; and across thewide trance of the sea, east nodded to west, and the sun over all.Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes; like vices myhands grasped the shrouds; some invisible, gracious agency preservedme; with a shock I came back to life. And lo! close under our lee, notforty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling in the water likethe capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of an Ethiopianhue, glistening in the sun’s rays like a mirror. But lazily undulatingin the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting hisvapory jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe ofa warm afternoon. But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last. As if struckby some enchanter’s wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it allat once started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices fromall parts of the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes fromaloft, shouted forth the accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly andregularly spouted the sparkling brine into the air.“Clear away the boats! Luff!” cried Ahab. And obeying his own order, hedashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes.The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; andere the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to theleeward, but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripplesas he swam, that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed,Ahab gave orders that not an oar should be used, and no man must speakbut in whispers. So seated like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of theboats, we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting ofthe noiseless sails being set. Presently, as we thus glided in chase,the monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air,and then sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.“There go flukes!” was the cry, an announcement immediately followed byStubb’s producing his match and igniting his pipe, for now a respitewas granted. After the full interval of his sounding had elapsed, thewhale rose again, and being now in advance of the smoker’s boat, andmuch nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb counted upon thehonor of the capture. It was obvious, now, that the whale had at lengthbecome aware of his pursuers. All silence of cautiousness was thereforeno longer of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play.And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to theassault.Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish. All alive to his jeopardy,he was going “head out”; that part obliquely projecting from the madyeast which he brewed.**It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance theentire interior of the sperm whale’s enormous head consists. Thoughapparently the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part abouthim. So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably doesso when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of theupper part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cut-waterformation of the lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, hethereby may be said to transform himself from a bluff-bowed sluggishgalliot into a sharppointed New York pilot-boat.“Start her, start her, my men! Don’t hurry yourselves; take plenty oftime—but start her; start her like thunder-claps, that’s all,” criedStubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. “Start her, now; give ’emthe long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy—starther, all; but keep cool, keep cool—cucumbers is the word—easy,easy—only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise theburied dead perpendicular out of their graves, boys—that’s all. Starther!”“Woo-hoo! Wa-hee!” screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some oldwar-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the strained boatinvoluntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading strokewhich the eager Indian gave.But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild. “Kee-hee!Kee-hee!” yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,like a pacing tiger in his cage.“Ka-la! Koo-loo!” howled Queequeg, as if smacking his lips over amouthful of Grenadier’s steak. And thus with oars and yells the keelscut the sea. Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the van, stillencouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke fromhis mouth. Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till thewelcome cry was heard—“Stand up, Tashtego!—give it to him!” The harpoonwas hurled. “Stern all!” The oarsmen backed water; the same momentsomething went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists. It wasthe magical line. An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught twoadditional turns with it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of itsincreased rapid circlings, a hempen blue smoke now jetted up andmingled with the steady fumes from his pipe. As the line passed roundand round the loggerhead; so also, just before reaching that point, itblisteringly passed through and through both of Stubb’s hands, fromwhich the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas sometimes worn atthese times, had accidentally dropped. It was like holding an enemy’ssharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the timestriving to wrest it out of your clutch.“Wet the line! wet the line!” cried Stubb to the tub oarsman (himseated by the tub) who, snatching off his hat, dashed sea-water intoit.* More turns were taken, so that the line began holding its place.The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins.Stubb and Tashtego here changed places—stem for stern—a staggeringbusiness truly in that rocking commotion.*Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here bestated, that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash therunning line with water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, orbailer, is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is the mostconvenient.From the vibrating line extending the entire length of the upper partof the boat, and from its now being more tight than a harpstring, youwould have thought the craft had two keels—one cleaving the water, theother the air—as the boat churned on through both opposing elements atonce. A continual cascade played at the bows; a ceaseless whirling eddyin her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of alittle finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodicgunwale into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and mainclinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the foam; and the tallform of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double, in orderto bring down his centre of gravity. Whole Atlantics and Pacificsseemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whalesomewhat slackened his flight.“Haul in—haul in!” cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing roundtowards the whale, all hands began pulling the boat up to him, whileyet the boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb,firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dartinto the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternatelysterning out of the way of the whale’s horrible wallow, and thenranging up for another fling.The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks downa hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, whichbubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The slanting sunplaying upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its reflectioninto every face, so that they all glowed to each other like red men.And all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shotfrom the spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from themouth of the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon hiscrooked lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it againand again, by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again andagain sent it into the whale.“Pull up—pull up!” he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning whalerelaxed in his wrath. “Pull up!—close to!” and the boat ranged alongthe fish’s flank. When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churnedhis long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefullychurning and churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some goldwatch that the whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful ofbreaking ere he could hook it out. But that gold watch he sought wasthe innermost life of the fish. And now it is struck; for, startingfrom his trance into that unspeakable thing called his “flurry,” themonster horribly wallowed in his blood, overwrapped himself inimpenetrable, mad, boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft,instantly dropping astern, had much ado blindly to struggle out fromthat phrensied twilight into the clear air of the day.And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled out intoview; surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and contractinghis spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations. At last,gush after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple leesof red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, randripping down his motionless flanks into the sea. His heart had burst!“He’s dead, Mr. Stubb,” said Daggoo.“Yes; both pipes smoked out!” and withdrawing his own from his mouth,Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for a moment, stoodthoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.CHAPTER 62. The Dart.A word concerning an incident in the last chapter.According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat pushesoff from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporarysteersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremostoar, the one known as the harpooneer-oar. Now it needs a strong,nervous arm to strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in whatis called a long dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to thedistance of twenty or thirty feet. But however prolonged and exhaustingthe chase, the harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to theuttermost; indeed, he is expected to set an example of superhumanactivity to the rest, not only by incredible rowing, but by repeatedloud and intrepid exclamations; and what it is to keep shouting at thetop of one’s compass, while all the other muscles are strained and halfstarted—what that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, Icannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the sametime. In this straining, bawling state, then, with his back to thefish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the excitingcry—“Stand up, and give it to him!” He now has to drop and secure hisoar, turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from thecrotch, and with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch itsomehow into the whale. No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemenin a body, that out of fifty fair chances for a dart, not five aresuccessful; no wonder that so many hapless harpooneers are madly cursedand disrated; no wonder that some of them actually burst theirblood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some sperm whalemen areabsent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to many shipowners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer thatmakes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how canyou expect to find it there when most wanted!Again, if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant,that is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneerlikewise start to running fore and aft, to the imminent jeopardy ofthemselves and every one else. It is then they change places; and theheadsman, the chief officer of the little craft, takes his properstation in the bows of the boat.Now, I care not who maintains the contrary, but all this is bothfoolish and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in the bows fromfirst to last; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance, and norowing whatever should be expected of him, except under circumstancesobvious to any fisherman. I know that this would sometimes involve aslight loss of speed in the chase; but long experience in variouswhalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vastmajority of failures in the fishery, it has not by any means been somuch the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of theharpooneer that has caused them.To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooneers of thisworld must start to their feet from out of idleness, and not from outof toil.CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs. So, inproductive subjects, grow the chapters.The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.It is a notched stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length,which is perpendicularly inserted into the starboard gunwale near thebow, for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity ofthe harpoon, whose other naked, barbed end slopingly projects from theprow. Thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, whosnatches it up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings hisrifle from the wall. It is customary to have two harpoons reposing inthe crotch, respectively called the first and second irons.But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected withthe line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, oneinstantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in thecoming drag, one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold. Itis a doubling of the chances. But it very often happens that owing tothe instantaneous, violent, convulsive running of the whale uponreceiving the first iron, it becomes impossible for the harpooneer,however lightning-like in his movements, to pitch the second iron intohim. Nevertheless, as the second iron is already connected with theline, and the line is running, hence that weapon must, at all events,be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat, somehow and somewhere; elsethe most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands. Tumbled into thewater, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare coils of box line(mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in most instances,prudently practicable. But this critical act is not always unattendedwith the saddest and most fatal casualties.Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrownoverboard, it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror,skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.Nor, in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale isfairly captured and a corpse.Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engagingone unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to thesequalities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents ofsuch an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may besimultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat issupplied with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the firstone be ineffectually darted without recovery. All these particulars arefaithfully narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate severalmost important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to bepainted.CHAPTER 64. Stubb’s Supper.Stubb’s whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was acalm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slowbusiness of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteenmen with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty thumbs andfingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpsein the sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at longintervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness ofthe mass we moved. For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whateverthey call it, in China, four or five laborers on the foot-path willdraw a bulky freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but thisgrand argosy we towed heavily forged along, as if laden with pig-leadin bulk.Darkness came on; but three lights up and down in the Pequod’smain-rigging dimly guided our way; till drawing nearer we saw Ahabdropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks. Vacantlyeyeing the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders forsecuring it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman,went his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again untilmorning.Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab hadevinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that thecreature was dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, ordespair, seemed working in him; as if the sight of that dead bodyreminded him that Moby Dick was yet to be slain; and though a thousandother whales were brought to his ship, all that would not one jotadvance his grand, monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thoughtfrom the sound on the Pequod’s decks, that all hands were preparing tocast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along thedeck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes. But by those clankinglinks, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored. Tied bythe head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lieswith its black hull close to the vessel’s and seen through the darknessof the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two—shipand whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof onereclines while the other remains standing.**A little item may as well be related here. The strongest and mostreliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside,is by the flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part isrelatively heavier than any other (excepting the side-fins), itsflexibility even in death, causes it to sink low beneath the surface;so that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat, in order toput the chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: asmall, strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end,and a weight in its middle, while the other end is secured to the ship.By adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the other sideof the mass, so that now having girdled the whale, the chain is readilymade to follow suit; and being slipped along the body, is at lastlocked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the point ofjunction with its broad flukes or lobes.If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be knownon deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed anunusual but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle washe in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resignedto him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helpingcause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangelymanifest. Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond ofthe whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.“A steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cutme one from his small!”Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a generalthing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defraythe current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceedsof the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketerswho have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whaledesignated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.About midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by twolanterns of sperm oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supperat the capstan-head, as if that capstan were a sideboard. Nor was Stubbthe only banqueter on whale’s flesh that night. Mingling theirmumblings with his own mastications, thousands on thousands of sharks,swarming round the dead leviathan, smackingly feasted on its fatness.The few sleepers below in their bunks were often startled by the sharpslapping of their tails against the hull, within a few inches of thesleepers’ hearts. Peering over the side you could just see them (asbefore you heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters, andturning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces ofthe whale of the bigness of a human head. This particular feat of theshark seems all but miraculous. How at such an apparently unassailablesurface, they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remainsa part of the universal problem of all things. The mark they thus leaveon the whale, may best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter incountersinking for a screw.Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharkswill be seen longingly gazing up to the ship’s decks, like hungry dogsround a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down everykilled man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiantbutchers over the deck-table are thus cannibally carving each other’slive meat with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, the sharks,also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are quarrelsomely carving awayunder the table at the dead meat; and though, were you to turn thewhole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the same thing,that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties;and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave shipscrossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handyin case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to bedecently buried; and though one or two other like instances might beset down, touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks domost socially congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there noconceivable time or occasion when you will find them in such countlessnumbers, and in gayer or more jovial spirits, than around a dead spermwhale, moored by night to a whaleship at sea. If you have never seenthat sight, then suspend your decision about the propriety ofdevil-worship, and the expediency of conciliating the devil.But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that wasgoing on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the smacking ofhis own epicurean lips.“Cook, cook!—where’s that old Fleece?” he cried at length, widening hislegs still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper;and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbingwith his lance; “cook, you cook!—sail this way, cook!”The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previouslyroused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, cameshambling along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there wassomething the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep wellscoured like his other pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, cameshuffling and limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which,after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this oldEbony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of command, cameto a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb’s sideboard; when, withboth hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, hebowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sidewaysinclining his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.“Cook,” said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to hismouth, “don’t you think this steak is rather overdone? You’ve beenbeating this steak too much, cook; it’s too tender. Don’t I always saythat to be good, a whale-steak must be tough? There are those sharksnow over the side, don’t you see they prefer it tough and rare? What ashindy they are kicking up! Cook, go and talk to ’em; tell ’em they arewelcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they mustkeep quiet. Blast me, if I can hear my own voice. Away, cook, anddeliver my message. Here, take this lantern,” snatching one from hissideboard; “now then, go and preach to ’em!”Sullenly taking the offered lantern, old Fleece limped across the deckto the bulwarks; and then, with one hand dropping his light low overthe sea, so as to get a good view of his congregation, with the otherhand he solemnly flourished his tongs, and leaning far over the side ina mumbling voice began addressing the sharks, while Stubb, softlycrawling behind, overheard all that was said.“Fellow-critters: I’se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat damnoise dare. You hear? Stop dat dam smackin’ ob de lip! Massa Stubb saydat you can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor! youmust stop dat dam racket!”“Cook,” here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a sudden slapon the shoulder,—“Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustn’t swear that waywhen you’re preaching. That’s no way to convert sinners, cook!”“Who dat? Den preach to him yourself,” sullenly turning to go.“No, cook; go on, go on.”“Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters:”—“Right!” exclaimed Stubb, approvingly, “coax ’em to it; try that,” andFleece continued.“Do you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I zay to you,fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness—’top dat dam slappin’ ob detail! How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin’ andbitin’ dare?”“Cook,” cried Stubb, collaring him, “I won’t have that swearing. Talkto ’em gentlemanly.”Once more the sermon proceeded.“Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don’t blame ye so much for; datis natur, and can’t be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat isde pint. You is sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, whyden you be angel; for all angel is not’ing more dan de shark wellgoberned. Now, look here, bred’ren, just try wonst to be cibil, ahelping yourselbs from dat whale. Don’t be tearin’ de blubber out yourneighbour’s mout, I say. Is not one shark dood right as toder to datwhale? And, by Gor, none on you has de right to dat whale; dat whalebelong to some one else. I know some o’ you has berry brig mout,brigger dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de smallbellies; so dat de brigness of de mout is not to swaller wid, but tobit off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can’t get into descrouge to help demselves.”“Well done, old Fleece!” cried Stubb, “that’s Christianity; go on.”“No use goin’ on; de dam willains will keep a scougin’ and slappin’each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don’t hear one word; no use a-preachin’ tosuch dam g’uttons as you call ’em, till dare bellies is full, and darebellies is bottomless; and when dey do get ’em full, dey wont hear youden; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, andcan’t hear not’ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.”“Upon my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction,Fleece, and I’ll away to my supper.”Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised hisshrill voice, and cried—“Cussed fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fillyour dam’ bellies ’till dey bust—and den die.”“Now, cook,” said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; “standjust where you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particularattention.”“All dention,” said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in thedesired position.“Well,” said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; “I shall now goback to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you,cook?”“What dat do wid de ’teak,” said the old black, testily.“Silence! How old are you, cook?”“’Bout ninety, dey say,” he gloomily muttered.“And you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years, cook,and don’t know yet how to cook a whale-steak?” rapidly bolting anothermouthful at the last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of thequestion. “Where were you born, cook?”“’Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin’ ober de Roanoke.”“Born in a ferry-boat! That’s queer, too. But I want to know whatcountry you were born in, cook!”“Didn’t I say de Roanoke country?” he cried sharply.“No, you didn’t, cook; but I’ll tell you what I’m coming to, cook. Youmust go home and be born over again; you don’t know how to cook awhale-steak yet.”“Bress my soul, if I cook noder one,” he growled, angrily, turninground to depart.“Come back, cook;—here, hand me those tongs;—now take that bit of steakthere, and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be? Takeit, I say”—holding the tongs towards him—“take it, and taste it.”Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a moment, the old negromuttered, “Best cooked ’teak I eber taste; joosy, berry joosy.”“Cook,” said Stubb, squaring himself once more; “do you belong to thechurch?”“Passed one once in Cape-Down,” said the old man sullenly.“And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town,where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers ashis beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook! And yet you come here,and tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?” said Stubb.“Where do you expect to go to, cook?”“Go to bed berry soon,” he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.“Avast! heave to! I mean when you die, cook. It’s an awful question.Now what’s your answer?”“When dis old brack man dies,” said the negro slowly, changing hiswhole air and demeanor, “he hisself won’t go nowhere; but some bressedangel will come and fetch him.”“Fetch him? How? In a coach and four, as they fetched Elijah? And fetchhim where?”“Up dere,” said Fleece, holding his tongs straight over his head, andkeeping it there very solemnly.“So, then, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, whenyou are dead? But don’t you know the higher you climb, the colder itgets? Main-top, eh?”“Didn’t say dat t’all,” said Fleece, again in the sulks.“You said up there, didn’t you? and now look yourself, and see whereyour tongs are pointing. But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven bycrawling through the lubber’s hole, cook; but, no, no, cook, you don’tget there, except you go the regular way, round by the rigging. It’s aticklish business, but must be done, or else it’s no go. But none of usare in heaven yet. Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do yehear? Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t’other a’top of your heart,when I’m giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, there?—that’syour gizzard! Aloft! aloft!—that’s it—now you have it. Hold it therenow, and pay attention.”“All ’dention,” said the old black, with both hands placed as desired,vainly wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front atone and the same time.“Well then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad,that I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that,don’t you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak formy private table here, the capstan, I’ll tell you what to do so as notto spoil it by overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a livecoal to it with the other; that done, dish it; d’ye hear? And nowto-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand byto get the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the endsof the flukes, have them soused, cook. There, now ye may go.”But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.“Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.D’ye hear? away you sail, then.—Halloa! stop! make a bow before yougo.—Avast heaving again! Whale-balls for breakfast—don’t forget.”“Wish, by gor! whale eat him, ’stead of him eat whale. I’m bressed ifhe ain’t more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself,” muttered the old man,limping away; with which sage ejaculation he went to his hammock.CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.That mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp, and,like Stubb, eat him by his own light, as you may say; this seems sooutlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into the history andphilosophy of it.It is upon record, that three centuries ago the tongue of the RightWhale was esteemed a great delicacy in France, and commanded largeprices there. Also, that in Henry VIIIth’s time, a certain cook of thecourt obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to beeaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species ofwhale. Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating. Themeat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and beingwell seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them. They had a greatporpoise grant from the crown.The fact is, that among his hunters at least, the whale would by allhands be considered a noble dish, were there not so much of him; butwhen you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one hundred feetlong, it takes away your appetite. Only the most unprejudiced of menlike Stubb, nowadays partake of cooked whales; but the Esquimaux arenot so fastidious. We all know how they live upon whales, and have rareold vintages of prime old train oil. Zogranda, one of their most famousdoctors, recommends strips of blubber for infants, as being exceedinglyjuicy and nourishing. And this reminds me that certain Englishmen, wholong ago were accidentally left in Greenland by a whaling vessel—thatthese men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps ofwhales which had been left ashore after trying out the blubber. Amongthe Dutch whalemen these scraps are called “fritters”; which, indeed,they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling somethinglike old Amsterdam housewives’ dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh.They have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger canhardly keep his hands off.But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish, is hisexceeding richness. He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to bedelicately good. Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as thebuffalo’s (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solidpyramid of fat. But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy thatis; like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in thethird month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute forbutter. Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it intosome other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try watchesof the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip theirship-biscuit into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Manya good supper have I thus made.In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a finedish. The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the twoplump, whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two largepuddings), they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a mostdelectable mess, in flavor somewhat resembling calves’ head, which isquite a dish among some epicures; and every one knows that some youngbucks among the epicures, by continually dining upon calves’ brains, byand by get to have a little brains of their own, so as to be able totell a calf’s head from their own heads; which, indeed, requiresuncommon discrimination. And that is the reason why a young buck withan intelligent looking calf’s head before him, is somehow one of thesaddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully athim, with an “Et tu Brute!” expression.It is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessivelyunctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him withabhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from the considerationbefore mentioned: i.e. that a man should eat a newly murdered thingof the sea, and eat it too by its own light. But no doubt the first manthat ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he washung; and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly wouldhave been; and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does. Go to themeat-market of a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipedsstaring up at the long rows of dead quadrupeds. Does not that sighttake a tooth out of the cannibal’s jaw? Cannibals? who is not acannibal? I tell you it will be more tolerable for the Fejee thatsalted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a coming famine; itwill be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in the day ofjudgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, whonailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thypaté-de-foie-gras.But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he? and that isadding insult to injury, is it? Look at your knife-handle, there, mycivilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what isthat handle made of?—what but the bones of the brother of the very oxyou are eating? And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouringthat fat goose? With a feather of the same fowl. And with what quilldid the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty toGanders formally indite his circulars? It is only within the last monthor two that that society passed a resolution to patronize nothing butsteel pens.CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.When in the Southern Fishery, a captured Sperm Whale, after long andweary toil, is brought alongside late at night, it is not, as a generalthing at least, customary to proceed at once to the business of cuttinghim in. For that business is an exceedingly laborious one; is not verysoon completed; and requires all hands to set about it. Therefore, thecommon usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm a’lee; and then sendevery one below to his hammock till daylight, with the reservationthat, until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is, two andtwo for an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the deckto see that all goes well.But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the Pacific, this plan willnot answer at all; because such incalculable hosts of sharks gatherround the moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on astretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning. Inmost other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not solargely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerablydiminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, aprocedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems totickle them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in thepresent case with the Pequod’s sharks; though, to be sure, any manunaccustomed to such sights, to have looked over her side that night,would have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese, andthose sharks the maggots in it.Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper wasconcluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman cameon deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; forimmediately suspending the cutting stages over the side, and loweringthree lanterns, so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbidsea, these two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up anincessant murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deepinto their skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamyconfusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could notalways hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of theincredible ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only ateach other’s disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, andbit their own; till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over againby the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound. Nor wasthis all. It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of thesecreatures. A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality seemed to lurk intheir very joints and bones, after what might be called the individuallife had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his skin,one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg’s hand off, when he triedto shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.*The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel;is about the bigness of a man’s spread hand; and in general shape,corresponds to the garden implement after which it is named; only itssides are perfectly flat, and its upper end considerably narrower thanthe lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and whenbeing used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. In its socket, astiff pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.“Queequeg no care what god made him shark,” said the savage,agonizingly lifting his hand up and down; “wedder Fejee god orNantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin.”CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.It was a Saturday night, and such a Sabbath as followed! Ex officioprofessors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod wasturned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You wouldhave thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods.In the first place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other ponderousthings comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green, andwhich no single man can possibly lift—this vast bunch of grapes wasswayed up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head, thestrongest point anywhere above a ship’s deck. The end of thehawser-like rope winding through these intricacies, was then conductedto the windlass, and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung overthe whale; to this block the great blubber hook, weighing some onehundred pounds, was attached. And now suspended in stages over theside, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates, armed with their long spades,began cutting a hole in the body for the insertion of the hook justabove the nearest of the two side-fins. This done, a broad,semicircular line is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and themain body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heavingin one dense crowd at the windlass. When instantly, the entire shipcareens over on her side; every bolt in her starts like the nail-headsof an old house in frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and nods herfrighted mast-heads to the sky. More and more she leans over to thewhale, while every gasping heave of the windlass is answered by ahelping heave from the billows; till at last, a swift, startling snapis heard; with a great swash the ship rolls upwards and backwards fromthe whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into sight dragging after itthe disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of blubber. Now asthe blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an orange,so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is sometimesstripped by spiralizing it. For the strain constantly kept up by thewindlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in thewater, and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along theline called the “scarf,” simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuckand Stubb, the mates; and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, andindeed by that very act itself, it is all the time being hoisted higherand higher aloft till its upper end grazes the main-top; the men at thewindlass then cease heaving, and for a moment or two the prodigiousblood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from the sky, andevery one present must take good heed to dodge it when it swings, elseit may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.One of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weaponcalled a boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slicesout a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass. Intothis hole, the end of the second alternating great tackle is thenhooked so as to retain a hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare forwhat follows. Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, warning all handsto stand off, once more makes a scientific dash at the mass, and with afew sidelong, desperate, lunging slicings, severs it completely intwain; so that while the short lower part is still fast, the long upperstrip, called a blanket-piece, swings clear, and is all ready forlowering. The heavers forward now resume their song, and while the onetackle is peeling and hoisting a second strip from the whale, the otheris slowly slackened away, and down goes the first strip through themain hatchway right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called theblubber-room. Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keepcoiling away the long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass ofplaited serpents. And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoistingand lowering simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, theheavers singing, the blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the matesscarfing, the ship straining, and all hands swearing occasionally, byway of assuaging the general friction.CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.I have given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, the skinof the whale. I have had controversies about it with experiencedwhalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore. My original opinionremains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale? Already youknow what his blubber is. That blubber is something of the consistenceof firm, close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, andranges from eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.Now, however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of anycreature’s skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness, yetin point of fact these are no arguments against such a presumption;because you cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from thewhale’s body but that same blubber; and the outermost enveloping layerof any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that be but the skin?True, from the unmarred dead body of the whale, you may scrape off withyour hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhatresembling the thinnest shreds of isinglass, only it is almost asflexible and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when itnot only contracts and thickens, but becomes rather hard and brittle. Ihave several such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books.It is transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon the printedpage, I have sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted amagnifying influence. At any rate, it is pleasant to read about whalesthrough their own spectacles, as you may say. But what I am driving athere is this. That same infinitely thin, isinglass substance, which, Iadmit, invests the entire body of the whale, is not so much to beregarded as the skin of the creature, as the skin of the skin, so tospeak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that the proper skin ofthe tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the skin of anew-born child. But no more of this.Assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin,as in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of onehundred barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity,or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only threefourths, and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hencebe had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whosemere integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning tenbarrels to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only threequarters of the stuff of the whale’s skin.In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least amongthe many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all overobliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks inthick array, something like those in the finest Italian lineengravings. But these marks do not seem to be impressed upon theisinglass substance above mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, asif they were engraved upon the body itself. Nor is this all. In someinstances, to the quick, observant eye, those linear marks, as in averitable engraving, but afford the ground for far other delineations.These are hieroglyphical; that is, if you call those mysterious cypherson the walls of pyramids hieroglyphics, then that is the proper word touse in the present connexion. By my retentive memory of thehieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struckwith a plate representing the old Indian characters chiselled on thefamous hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi.Like those mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remainsundecipherable. This allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of anotherthing. Besides all the other phenomena which the exterior of the SpermWhale presents, he not seldom displays the back, and more especiallyhis flanks, effaced in great part of the regular linear appearance, byreason of numerous rude scratches, altogether of an irregular, randomaspect. I should say that those New England rocks on the sea-coast,which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of violent scraping contactwith vast floating icebergs—I should say, that those rocks must not alittle resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular. It also seems to methat such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile contactwith other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large,full-grown bulls of the species.A word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of thewhale. It has already been said, that it is stript from him in longpieces, called blanket-pieces. Like most sea-terms, this one is veryhappy and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubberas in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still better, an Indian ponchoslipt over his head, and skirting his extremity. It is by reason ofthis cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to keephimself comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides.What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icyseas of the North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout? True, otherfish are found exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; butthese, be it observed, are your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose verybellies are refrigerators; creatures, that warm themselves under thelee of an iceberg, as a traveller in winter would bask before an innfire; whereas, like man, the whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze hisblood, and he dies. How wonderful is it then—except afterexplanation—that this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is asindispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be found athome, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, whenseamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards,perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly isfound glued in amber. But more surprising is it to know, as has beenproved by experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer thanthat of a Borneo negro in summer.It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strongindividual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rarevirtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyselfafter the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too,live in this world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keepthy blood fluid at the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter’s, andlike the great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature ofthine own.But how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things! Of erections,how few are domed like St. Peter’s! of creatures, how few vast as thewhale!CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.“Haul in the chains! Let the carcase go astern!”The vast tackles have now done their duty. The peeled white body of thebeheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue,it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk. It is still colossal.Slowly it floats more and more away, the water round it torn andsplashed by the insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed withrapacious flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so manyinsulting poniards in the whale. The vast white headless phantom floatsfurther and further from the ship, and every rod that it so floats,what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment themurderous din. For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship thathideous sight is seen. Beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky, uponthe fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous breezes, thatgreat mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infiniteperspectives.There’s a most doleful and most mocking funeral! The sea-vultures allin pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black orspeckled. In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween,if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeralthey most piously do pounce. Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! fromwhich not the mightiest whale is free.Nor is this the end. Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghostsurvives and hovers over it to scare. Espied by some timid man-of-waror blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance obscuringthe swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass floating inthe sun, and the white spray heaving high against it; straightway thewhale’s unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in thelog—shoals, rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware! And for yearsafterwards, perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as sillysheep leap over a vacuum, because their leader originally leaped therewhen a stick was held. There’s your law of precedents; there’s yourutility of traditions; there’s the story of your obstinate survival ofold beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and now not even hovering inthe air! There’s orthodoxy!Thus, while in life the great whale’s body may have been a real terrorto his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to aworld.Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend? There are other ghosts thanthe Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believein them.CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.It should not have been omitted that previous to completely strippingthe body of the leviathan, he was beheaded. Now, the beheading of theSperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon which experiencedwhale surgeons very much pride themselves: and not without reason.Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck;on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in thatvery place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that thesurgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet interveningbetween him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in adiscoloured, rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bearin mind, too, that under these untoward circumstances he has to cutmany feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, withoutso much as getting one single peep into the ever-contracting gash thusmade, he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts,and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertioninto the skull. Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb’s boast, that hedemanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by acable till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a smallwhale it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with afull grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale’s headembraces nearly one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspendsuch a burden as that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, thiswere as vain a thing as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers’scales.The Pequod’s whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the headwas hoisted against the ship’s side—about half way out of the sea, sothat it might yet in great part be buoyed up by its native element. Andthere with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it, by reason ofthe enormous downward drag from the lower mast-head, and every yard-armon that side projecting like a crane over the waves; there, thatblood-dripping head hung to the Pequod’s waist like the giantHolofernes’s from the girdle of Judith.When this last task was accomplished it was noon, and the seamen wentbelow to their dinner. Silence reigned over the before tumultuous butnow deserted deck. An intense copper calm, like a universal yellowlotus, was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leavesupon the sea.A short space elapsed, and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alonefrom his cabin. Taking a few turns on the quarter-deck, he paused togaze over the side, then slowly getting into the main-chains he tookStubb’s long spade—still remaining there after the whale’sdecapitation—and striking it into the lower part of the half-suspendedmass, placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so stoodleaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.It was a black and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of sointense a calm, it seemed the Sphynx’s in the desert. “Speak, thou vastand venerable head,” muttered Ahab, “which, though ungarnished with abeard, yet here and there lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mightyhead, and tell us the secret thing that is in thee. Of all divers, thouhast dived the deepest. That head upon which the upper sun now gleams,has moved amid this world’s foundations. Where unrecorded names andnavies rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderoushold this frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of thedrowned; there, in that awful water-land, there was thy most familiarhome. Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast slept by manya sailor’s side, where sleepless mothers would give their lives to laythem down. Thou saw’st the locked lovers when leaping from theirflaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; trueto each other, when heaven seemed false to them. Thou saw’st themurdered mate when tossed by pirates from the midnight deck; for hourshe fell into the deeper midnight of the insatiate maw; and hismurderers still sailed on unharmed—while swift lightnings shivered theneighboring ship that would have borne a righteous husband tooutstretched, longing arms. O head! thou hast seen enough to split theplanets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one syllable is thine!”“Sail ho!” cried a triumphant voice from the main-mast-head.“Aye? Well, now, that’s cheering,” cried Ahab, suddenly erectinghimself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow. “Thatlively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a betterman.—Where away?”“Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breezeto us!“Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way,and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man!how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not thesmallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicatein mind.”CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam’s Story.Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster thanthe ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock.By and by, through the glass the stranger’s boats and manned mast-headsproved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, andshooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, thePequod could not hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see whatresponse would be made.Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the shipsof the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all whichsignals being collected in a book with the names of the respectivevessels attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whalecommanders are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even atconsiderable distances and with no small facility.The Pequod’s signal was at last responded to by the stranger’s settingher own; which proved the ship to be the Jeroboam of Nantucket.Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under the Pequod’s lee,and lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the side-ladder wasbeing rigged by Starbuck’s order to accommodate the visiting captain,the stranger in question waved his hand from his boat’s stern in tokenof that proceeding being entirely unnecessary. It turned out that theJeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, hercaptain, was fearful of infecting the Pequod’s company. For, thoughhimself and boat’s crew remained untainted, and though his ship washalf a rifle-shot off, and an incorruptible sea and air rolling andflowing between; yet conscientiously adhering to the timid quarantineof the land, he peremptorily refused to come into direct contact withthe Pequod.But this did by no means prevent all communications. Preserving aninterval of some few yards between itself and the ship, the Jeroboam’sboat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel tothe Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this time itblew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at timesby the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushedsome way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her properbearings again. Subject to this, and other the like interruptions nowand then, a conversation was sustained between the two parties; but atintervals not without still another interruption of a very differentsort.Pulling an oar in the Jeroboam’s boat, was a man of a singularappearance, even in that wild whaling life where individualnotabilities make up all totalities. He was a small, short, youngishman, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and wearing redundantyellow hair. A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a faded walnuttinge enveloped him; the overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up onhis wrists. A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb hadexclaimed—“That’s he! that’s he!—the long-togged scaramouch theTown-Ho’s company told us of!” Stubb here alluded to a strange storytold of the Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some timeprevious when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho. According to this accountand what was subsequently learned, it seemed that the scaramouch inquestion had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in theJeroboam. His story was this:He had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of NeskyeunaShakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secretmeetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of atrap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which hecarried in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containinggunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange,apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket,where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady,common-sense exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidatefor the Jeroboam’s whaling voyage. They engaged him; but straightwayupon the ship’s getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out ina freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commandedthe captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby heset himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea andvicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with whichhe declared these things;—the dark, daring play of his sleepless,excited imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of realdelirium, united to invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority ofthe ignorant crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness. Moreover, theywere afraid of him. As such a man, however, was not of much practicaluse in the ship, especially as he refused to work except when hepleased, the incredulous captain would fain have been rid of him; butapprised that that individual’s intention was to land him in the firstconvenient port, the archangel forthwith opened all his seals andvials—devoting the ship and all hands to unconditional perdition, incase this intention was carried out. So strongly did he work upon hisdisciples among the crew, that at last in a body they went to thecaptain and told him if Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man ofthem would remain. He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan. Norwould they permit Gabriel to be any way maltreated, say or do what hewould; so that it came to pass that Gabriel had the complete freedom ofthe ship. The consequence of all this was, that the archangel caredlittle or nothing for the captain and mates; and since the epidemic hadbroken out, he carried a higher hand than ever; declaring that theplague, as he called it, was at his sole command; nor should it bestayed but according to his good pleasure. The sailors, mostly poordevils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him; in obedience tohis instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to a god.Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are true.Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to themeasureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measurelesspower of deceiving and bedevilling so many others. But it is time toreturn to the Pequod.“I fear not thy epidemic, man,” said Ahab from the bulwarks, to CaptainMayhew, who stood in the boat’s stern; “come on board.”But now Gabriel started to his feet.“Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious! Beware of the horribleplague!”“Gabriel! Gabriel!” cried Captain Mayhew; “thou must either—” But thatinstant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seethingsdrowned all speech.“Hast thou seen the White Whale?” demanded Ahab, when the boat driftedback.“Think, think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of thehorrible tail!”“I tell thee again, Gabriel, that—” But again the boat tore ahead as ifdragged by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while asuccession of riotous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasionalcaprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it. Meantime, thehoisted sperm whale’s head jogged about very violently, and Gabriel wasseen eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangelnature seemed to warrant.When this interlude was over, Captain Mayhew began a dark storyconcerning Moby Dick; not, however, without frequent interruptions fromGabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and the crazy sea that seemedleagued with him.It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speakinga whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence ofMoby Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in thisintelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking theWhite Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his gibberinginsanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than theShaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, someyear or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from themast-heads, Macey, the chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him;and the captain himself being not unwilling to let him have theopportunity, despite all the archangel’s denunciations andforewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading five men to man his boat.With them he pushed off; and, after much weary pulling, and manyperilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last succeeded in getting one ironfast. Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the main-royal mast-head, wastossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling forth prophecies ofspeedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his divinity. Now, whileMacey, the mate, was standing up in his boat’s bow, and with all thereckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations upon thewhale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo! abroad white shadow rose from the sea; by its quick, fanning motion,temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen. Nextinstant, the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodilyinto the air, and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the seaat the distance of about fifty yards. Not a chip of the boat washarmed, nor a hair of any oarsman’s head; but the mate for ever sank.It is well to parenthesize here, that of the fatal accidents in theSperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any.Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated;oftener the boat’s bow is knocked off, or the thigh-board, in which theheadsman stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. Butstrangest of all is the circumstance, that in more instances than one,when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of violence isdiscernible; the man being stark dead.The whole calamity, with the falling form of Macey, was plainlydescried from the ship. Raising a piercing shriek—“The vial! the vial!”Gabriel called off the terror-stricken crew from the further hunting ofthe whale. This terrible event clothed the archangel with addedinfluence; because his credulous disciples believed that he hadspecifically fore-announced it, instead of only making a generalprophecy, which any one might have done, and so have chanced to hit oneof many marks in the wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terrorto the ship.Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to him,that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether heintended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To whichAhab answered—“Aye.” Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started tohis feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, withdownward pointed finger—“Think, think of the blasphemer—dead, and downthere!—beware of the blasphemer’s end!”Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew, “Captain, I have justbethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for one of thyofficers, if I mistake not. Starbuck, look over the bag.”Every whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for variousships, whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed,depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans.Thus, most letters never reach their mark; and many are only receivedafter attaining an age of two or three years or more.Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand. It was sorelytumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, inconsequence of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin. Of such aletter, Death himself might well have been the post-boy.“Can’st not read it?” cried Ahab. “Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it’s buta dim scrawl;—what’s this?” As he was studying it out, Starbuck took along cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, toinsert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, withoutits coming any closer to the ship.Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, “Mr. Har—yes, Mr. Harry—(awoman’s pinny hand,—the man’s wife, I’ll wager)—Aye—Mr. Harry Macey,Ship Jeroboam;—why it’s Macey, and he’s dead!”“Poor fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife,” sighed Mayhew; “but letme have it.”“Nay, keep it thyself,” cried Gabriel to Ahab; “thou art soon goingthat way.”“Curses throttle thee!” yelled Ahab. “Captain Mayhew, stand by now toreceive it”; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck’s hands, hecaught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards theboat. But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing;the boat drifted a little towards the ship’s stern; so that, as if bymagic, the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel’s eager hand. Heclutched it in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling theletter on it, sent it thus loaded back into the ship. It fell at Ahab’sfeet. Then Gabriel shrieked out to his comrades to give way with theiroars, and in that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from thePequod.As, after this interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacketof the whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wildaffair.CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.In the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale,there is much running backwards and forwards among the crew. Now handsare wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there. There is nostaying in any one place; for at one and the same time everything hasto be done everywhere. It is much the same with him who endeavors thedescription of the scene. We must now retrace our way a little. It wasmentioned that upon first breaking ground in the whale’s back, theblubber-hook was inserted into the original hole there cut by thespades of the mates. But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as thatsame hook get fixed in that hole? It was inserted there by myparticular friend Queequeg, whose duty it was, as harpooneer, todescend upon the monster’s back for the special purpose referred to.But in very many cases, circumstances require that the harpooneer shallremain on the whale till the whole flensing or stripping operation isconcluded. The whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged,excepting the immediate parts operated upon. So down there, some tenfeet below the level of the deck, the poor harpooneer flounders about,half on the whale and half in the water, as the vast mass revolves likea tread-mill beneath him. On the occasion in question, Queequeg figuredin the Highland costume—a shirt and socks—in which to my eyes, atleast, he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one had a betterchance to observe him, as will presently be seen.Being the savage’s bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oarin his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty toattend upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon the deadwhale’s back. You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape bya long cord. Just so, from the ship’s steep side, did I hold Queequegdown there in the sea, by what is technically called in the fishery amonkey-rope, attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round hiswaist.It was a humorously perilous business for both of us. For, before weproceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at bothends; fast to Queequeg’s broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrowleather one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time,were wedded; and should poor Queequeg sink to rise no more, then bothusage and honor demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it shoulddrag me down in his wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligatureunited us. Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother; nor could Iany way get rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bondentailed.So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then,that while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly toperceive that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stockcompany of two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and thatanother’s mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmeriteddisaster and death. Therefore, I saw that here was a sort ofinterregnum in Providence; for its even-handed equity never could haveso gross an injustice. And yet still further pondering—while I jerkedhim now and then from between the whale and ship, which would threatento jam him—still further pondering, I say, I saw that this situation ofmine was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, inmost cases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with aplurality of other mortals. If your banker breaks, you snap; if yourapothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True,you may say that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape theseand the multitudinous other evil chances of life. But handle Queequeg’smonkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that Icame very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, dowhat I would, I only had the management of one end of it.**The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequodthat the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. Thisimprovement upon the original usage was introduced by no less a manthan Stubb, in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongestpossible guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of hismonkey-rope holder.I have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between thewhale and the ship—where he would occasionally fall, from the incessantrolling and swaying of both. But this was not the only jamming jeopardyhe was exposed to. Unappalled by the massacre made upon them during thenight, the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the beforepent blood which began to flow from the carcass—the rabid creaturesswarmed round it like bees in a beehive.And right in among those sharks was Queequeg; who often pushed themaside with his floundering feet. A thing altogether incredible were itnot that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwisemiscellaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man.Nevertheless, it may well be believed that since they have such aravenous finger in the pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp tothem. Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and thenjerked the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of whatseemed a peculiarly ferocious shark—he was provided with still anotherprotection. Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego andDaggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keenwhale-spades, wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they couldreach. This procedure of theirs, to be sure, was very disinterested andbenevolent of them. They meant Queequeg’s best happiness, I admit; butin their hasty zeal to befriend him, and from the circumstance thatboth he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood-muddledwater, those indiscreet spades of theirs would come nearer amputating aleg than a tail. But poor Queequeg, I suppose, straining and gaspingthere with that great iron hook—poor Queequeg, I suppose, only prayedto his Yojo, and gave up his life into the hands of his gods.Well, well, my dear comrade and twin-brother, thought I, as I drew inand then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea—what mattersit, after all? Are you not the precious image of each and all of us menin this whaling world? That unsounded ocean you gasp in, is Life; thosesharks, your foes; those spades, your friends; and what between sharksand spades you are in a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now,as with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at lastclimbs up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarilytrembling over the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent,consolatory glance hands him—what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, yegods! hands him a cup of tepid ginger and water!“Ginger? Do I smell ginger?” suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near.“Yes, this must be ginger,” peering into the as yet untasted cup. Thenstanding as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards theastonished steward slowly saying, “Ginger? ginger? and will you havethe goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue ofginger? Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, tokindle a fire in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!—what the devil isginger? Sea-coal? firewood?—lucifer matches?—tinder?—gunpowder?—whatthe devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poorQueequeg here.”“There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about thisbusiness,” he suddenly added, now approaching Starbuck, who had justcome from forward. “Will you look at that kannakin, sir: smell of it,if you please.” Then watching the mate’s countenance, he added, “Thesteward, Mr. Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap toQueequeg, there, this instant off the whale. Is the steward anapothecary, sir? and may I ask whether this is the sort of bitters bywhich he blows back the life into a half-drowned man?”“I trust not,” said Starbuck, “it is poor stuff enough.”“Aye, aye, steward,” cried Stubb, “we’ll teach you to drug aharpooneer; none of your apothecary’s medicine here; you want to poisonus, do ye? You have got out insurances on our lives and want to murderus all, and pocket the proceeds, do ye?”“It was not me,” cried Dough-Boy, “it was Aunt Charity that brought theginger on board; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits,but only this ginger-jub—so she called it.”“Ginger-jub! you gingerly rascal! take that! and run along with ye tothe lockers, and get something better. I hope I do no wrong, Mr.Starbuck. It is the captain’s orders—grog for the harpooneer on awhale.”“Enough,” replied Starbuck, “only don’t hit him again, but—”“Oh, I never hurt when I hit, except when I hit a whale or something ofthat sort; and this fellow’s a weazel. What were you about saying,sir?”“Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself.”When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and asort of tea-caddy in the other. The first contained strong spirits, andwas handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity’s gift, and thatwas freely given to the waves.CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talkover Him.It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale’sprodigious head hanging to the Pequod’s side. But we must let itcontinue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend toit. For the present other matters press, and the best we can do now forthe head, is to pray heaven the tackles may hold.Now, during the past night and forenoon, the Pequod had graduallydrifted into a sea, which, by its occasional patches of yellow brit,gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species of theLeviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurkinganywhere near. And though all hands commonly disdained the capture ofthose inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned tocruise for them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them nearthe Crozetts without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale hadbeen brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, theannouncement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day,if opportunity offered.Nor was this long wanting. Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and twoboats, Stubb’s and Flask’s, were detached in pursuit. Pulling furtherand further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men atthe mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap oftumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one orboth the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were inplain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by thetowing whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at firstit seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in amaelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared fromview, as if diving under the keel. “Cut, cut!” was the cry from theship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of beingbrought with a deadly dash against the vessel’s side. But having plentyof line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, theypaid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all theirmight so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the strugglewas intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightenedline in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, thecontending strain threatened to take them under. But it was only a fewfeet advance they sought to gain. And they stuck to it till they didgain it; when instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightningalong the keel, as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship,suddenly rose to view under her bows, snapping and quivering; and soflinging off its drippings, that the drops fell like bits of brokenglass on the water, while the whale beyond also rose to sight, and oncemore the boats were free to fly. But the fagged whale abated his speed,and blindly altering his course, went round the stern of the shiptowing the two boats after him, so that they performed a completecircuit.Meantime, they hauled more and more upon their lines, till closeflanking him on both sides, Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance;and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went, while themultitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale’s body,rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking at everynew gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountainsthat poured from the smitten rock.At last his spout grew thick, and with a frightful roll and vomit, heturned upon his back a corpse.While the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes,and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing, someconversation ensued between them.“I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard,” saidStubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with soignoble a leviathan.“Wants with it?” said Flask, coiling some spare line in the boat’s bow,“did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm Whale’shead hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a RightWhale’s on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship cannever afterwards capsize?”“Why not?“I don’t know, but I heard that gamboge ghost of a Fedallah saying so,and he seems to know all about ships’ charms. But I sometimes thinkhe’ll charm the ship to no good at last. I don’t half like that chap,Stubb. Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carvedinto a snake’s head, Stubb?”“Sink him! I never look at him at all; but if ever I get a chance of adark night, and he standing hard by the bulwarks, and no one by; lookdown there, Flask”—pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of bothhands—“Aye, will I! Flask, I take that Fedallah to be the devil indisguise. Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having beenstowed away on board ship? He’s the devil, I say. The reason why youdon’t see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carriesit coiled away in his pocket, I guess. Blast him! now that I think ofit, he’s always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots.”“He sleeps in his boots, don’t he? He hasn’t got any hammock; but I’veseen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging.”“No doubt, and it’s because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do yesee, in the eye of the rigging.”“What’s the old man have so much to do with him for?”“Striking up a swap or a bargain, I suppose.”“Bargain?—about what?”“Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, andthe devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap awayhis silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and thenhe’ll surrender Moby Dick.”“Pooh! Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?”“I don’t know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wickedone, I tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the oldflag-ship once, switching his tail about devilish easy andgentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, hewas at home, and asked the devil what he wanted. The devil, switchinghis hoofs, up and says, ‘I want John.’ ‘What for?’ says the oldgovernor. ‘What business is that of yours,’ says the devil, gettingmad,—‘I want to use him.’ ‘Take him,’ says the governor—and by theLord, Flask, if the devil didn’t give John the Asiatic cholera beforehe got through with him, I’ll eat this whale in one mouthful. But looksharp—ain’t you all ready there? Well, then, pull ahead, and let’s getthe whale alongside.”“I think I remember some such story as you were telling,” said Flask,when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burdentowards the ship, “but I can’t remember where.”“Three Spaniards? Adventures of those three bloody-minded soldadoes?Did ye read it there, Flask? I guess ye did?”“No: never saw such a book; heard of it, though. But now, tell me,Stubb, do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, wasthe same you say is now on board the Pequod?”“Am I the same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn’t the devil livefor ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead? Did you ever see anyparson a wearing mourning for the devil? And if the devil has alatch-key to get into the admiral’s cabin, don’t you suppose he cancrawl into a porthole? Tell me that, Mr. Flask?”“How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?”“Do you see that mainmast there?” pointing to the ship; “well, that’sthe figure one; now take all the hoops in the Pequod’s hold, and stringalong in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, thatwouldn’t begin to be Fedallah’s age. Nor all the coopers in creationcouldn’t show hoops enough to make oughts enough.”“But see here, Stubb, I thought you a little boasted just now, that youmeant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good chance. Now, ifhe’s so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he is going tolive for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard—tell methat?“Give him a good ducking, anyhow.”“But he’d crawl back.”“Duck him again; and keep ducking him.”“Suppose he should take it into his head to duck you, though—yes, anddrown you—what then?”“I should like to see him try it; I’d give him such a pair of blackeyes that he wouldn’t dare to show his face in the admiral’s cabinagain for a long while, let alone down in the orlop there, where helives, and hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much. Damnthe devil, Flask; so you suppose I’m afraid of the devil? Who’s afraidof him, except the old governor who daresn’t catch him and put him indouble-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about kidnappingpeople; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the devilkidnapped, he’d roast for him? There’s a governor!”“Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?”“Do I suppose it? You’ll know it before long, Flask. But I am going nowto keep a sharp look-out on him; and if I see anything very suspiciousgoing on, I’ll just take him by the nape of his neck, and say—Lookhere, Beelzebub, you don’t do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the LordI’ll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan,and give him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will comeshort off at the stump—do you see; and then, I rather guess when hefinds himself docked in that queer fashion, he’ll sneak off without thepoor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs.”“And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?”“Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;—what else?”“Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?”“Mean or not mean, here we are at the ship.”The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side,where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared forsecuring him.“Didn’t I tell you so?” said Flask; “yes, you’ll soon see this rightwhale’s head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti’s.”In good time, Flask’s saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeplyleaned over towards the sperm whale’s head, now, by the counterpoise ofboth heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you maywell believe. So, when on one side you hoist in Locke’s head, you goover that way; but now, on the other side, hoist in Kant’s and you comeback again; but in very poor plight. Thus, some minds for ever keeptrimming boat. Oh, ye foolish! throw all these thunder-heads overboard,and then you will float light and right.In disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside theship, the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in thecase of a sperm whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cutoff whole, but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removedand hoisted on deck, with all the well known black bone attached towhat is called the crown-piece. But nothing like this, in the presentcase, had been done. The carcases of both whales had dropped astern;and the head-laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pairof overburdening panniers.Meantime, Fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale’s head, and everand anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his ownhand. And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee occupied hisshadow; while, if the Parsee’s shadow was there at all it seemed onlyto blend with, and lengthen Ahab’s. As the crew toiled on, Laplandishspeculations were bandied among them, concerning all these passingthings.CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.Here, now, are two great whales, laying their heads together; let usjoin them, and lay together our own.Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and the RightWhale are by far the most noteworthy. They are the only whalesregularly hunted by man. To the Nantucketer, they present the twoextremes of all the known varieties of the whale. As the externaldifference between them is mainly observable in their heads; and as ahead of each is this moment hanging from the Pequod’s side; and as wemay freely go from one to the other, by merely stepping across thedeck:—where, I should like to know, will you obtain a better chance tostudy practical cetology than here?In the first place, you are struck by the general contrast betweenthese heads. Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is acertain mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale’s which the RightWhale’s sadly lacks. There is more character in the Sperm Whale’s head.As you behold it, you involuntarily yield the immense superiority tohim, in point of pervading dignity. In the present instance, too, thisdignity is heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at thesummit, giving token of advanced age and large experience. In short, heis what the fishermen technically call a “grey-headed whale.”Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads—namely, the twomost important organs, the eye and the ear. Far back on the side of thehead, and low down, near the angle of either whale’s jaw, if younarrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you wouldfancy to be a young colt’s eye; so out of all proportion is it to themagnitude of the head.Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale’s eyes, it isplain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no morethan he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale’seyes corresponds to that of a man’s ears; and you may fancy, foryourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objectsthrough your ears. You would find that you could only command somethirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight;and about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest foe were walkingstraight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would notbe able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you frombehind. In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at thesame time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makesthe front of a man—what, indeed, but his eyes?Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyesare so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as toproduce one picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position ofthe whale’s eyes, effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet ofsolid head, which towers between them like a great mountain separatingtwo lakes in valleys; this, of course, must wholly separate theimpressions which each independent organ imparts. The whale, therefore,must see one distinct picture on this side, and another distinctpicture on that side; while all between must be profound darkness andnothingness to him. Man may, in effect, be said to look out on theworld from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window. But withthe whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making twodistinct windows, but sadly impairing the view. This peculiarity of thewhale’s eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; andto be remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.A curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning thisvisual matter as touching the Leviathan. But I must be content with ahint. So long as a man’s eyes are open in the light, the act of seeingis involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeingwhatever objects are before him. Nevertheless, any one’s experiencewill teach him, that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep ofthings at one glance, it is quite impossible for him, attentively, andcompletely, to examine any two things—however large or however small—atone and the same instant of time; never mind if they lie side by sideand touch each other. But if you now come to separate these twoobjects, and surround each by a circle of profound darkness; then, inorder to see one of them, in such a manner as to bring your mind tobear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your contemporaryconsciousness. How is it, then, with the whale? True, both his eyes, inthemselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much morecomprehensive, combining, and subtle than man’s, that he can at thesame moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one onone side of him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction? If hecan, then is it as marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were ablesimultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinctproblems in Euclid. Nor, strictly investigated, is there anyincongruity in this comparison.It may be but an idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that theextraordinary vacillations of movement displayed by some whales whenbeset by three or four boats; the timidity and liability to queerfrights, so common to such whales; I think that all this indirectlyproceeds from the helpless perplexity of volition, in which theirdivided and diametrically opposite powers of vision must involve them.But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye. If you are anentire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two heads forhours, and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leafwhatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, sowondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. Withrespect to their ears, this important difference is to be observedbetween the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former hasan external opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly coveredover with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without.Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see theworld through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an earwhich is smaller than a hare’s? But if his eyes were broad as the lensof Herschel’s great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches ofcathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper ofhearing? Not at all.—Why then do you try to “enlarge” your mind?Subtilize it.Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cantover the sperm whale’s head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascendingby a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it notthat the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern wemight descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. Butlet us hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are. Whata really beautiful and chaste-looking mouth! from floor to ceiling,lined, or rather papered with a glistening white membrane, glossy asbridal satins.But come out now, and look at this portentous lower jaw, which seemslike the long narrow lid of an immense snuff-box, with the hinge at oneend, instead of one side. If you pry it up, so as to get it overhead,and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a terrific portcullis; and such,alas! it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom thesespikes fall with impaling force. But far more terrible is it to behold,when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky whale, floating theresuspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet long, hangingstraight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world like aship’s jib-boom. This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out ofsorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of hisjaw have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, areproach to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws uponhim.In most cases this lower jaw—being easily unhinged by a practisedartist—is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extractingthe ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebonewith which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles,including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to riding-whips.With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it were ananchor; and when the proper time comes—some few days after the otherwork—Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists,are set to drawing teeth. With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lancesthe gums; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle beingrigged from aloft, they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen dragstumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands. There are generallyforty-two teeth in all; in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed;nor filled after our artificial fashion. The jaw is afterwards sawninto slabs, and piled away like joists for building houses.CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.Crossing the deck, let us now have a good long look at the RightWhale’s head.As in general shape the noble Sperm Whale’s head may be compared to aRoman war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadlyrounded); so, at a broad view, the Right Whale’s head bears a ratherinelegant resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe. Two hundredyears ago an old Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of ashoemaker’s last. And in this same last or shoe, that old woman of thenursery tale, with the swarming brood, might very comfortably belodged, she and all her progeny.But as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume differentaspects, according to your point of view. If you stand on its summitand look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the wholehead for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures inits sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange,crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass—this green,barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the “crown,” and theSouthern fishers the “bonnet” of the Right Whale; fixing your eyessolely on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak,with a bird’s nest in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch thoselive crabs that nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almostsure to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by thetechnical term “crown” also bestowed upon it; in which case you willtake great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually adiademed king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together forhim in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is avery sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging lowerlip! what a huge sulk and pout is there! a sulk and pout, bycarpenter’s measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep; asulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.The fissure is about a foot across. Probably the mother during animportant interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, whenearthquakes caused the beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slipperythreshold, we now slide into the mouth. Upon my word were I atMackinaw, I should take this to be the inside of an Indian wigwam. GoodLord! is this the road that Jonah went? The roof is about twelve feethigh, and runs to a pretty sharp angle, as if there were a regularridge-pole there; while these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present uswith those wondrous, half vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whalebone,say three hundred on a side, which depending from the upper part of thehead or crown bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewherebeen cursorily mentioned. The edges of these bones are fringed withhairy fibres, through which the Right Whale strains the water, and inwhose intricacies he retains the small fish, when openmouthed he goesthrough the seas of brit in feeding time. In the central blinds ofbone, as they stand in their natural order, there are certain curiousmarks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate thecreature’s age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings. Though thecertainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has thesavor of analogical probability. At any rate, if we yield to it, wemust grant a far greater age to the Right Whale than at first glancewill seem reasonable.In old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fanciesconcerning these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous“whiskers” inside of the whale’s mouth;* another, “hogs’ bristles”; athird old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language:“There are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of hisupper chop, which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth.”*This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, orrather a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on theupper part of the outer end of the lower jaw. Sometimes these tuftsimpart a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemncountenance.As every one knows, these same “hogs’ bristles,” “fins,” “whiskers,”“blinds,” or whatever you please, furnish to the ladies their busks andother stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, the demand haslong been on the decline. It was in Queen Anne’s time that the bone wasin its glory, the farthingale being then all the fashion. And as thoseancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of the whale, asyou may say; even so, in a shower, with the like thoughtlessness, do wenowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being atent spread over the same bone.But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and,standing in the Right Whale’s mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing allthese colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you notthink you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon itsthousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softestTurkey—the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of themouth. It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoistingit on deck. This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance Ishould say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about thatamount of oil.Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I startedwith—that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirelydifferent heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale’s there is nogreat well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandibleof a lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale’s. Nor in the Sperm Whale arethere any of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcelyanything of a tongue. Again, the Right Whale has two externalspout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yetlie together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the otherwill not be very long in following.Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale’s there? It is the samehe died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem nowfaded away. I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie-likeplacidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark theother head’s expression. See that amazing lower lip, pressed byaccident against the vessel’s side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw.Does not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practicalresolution in facing death? This Right Whale I take to have been aStoic; the Sperm Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza inhis latter years.CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale’s head, I would have you,as a sensible physiologist, simply—particularly remark its frontaspect, in all its compacted collectedness. I would have youinvestigate it now with the sole view of forming to yourself someunexaggerated, intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power maybe lodged there. Here is a vital point; for you must eithersatisfactorily settle this matter with yourself, or for ever remain aninfidel as to one of the most appalling, but not the less true events,perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded history.You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale,the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to thewater; you observe that the lower part of that front slopesconsiderably backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the longsocket which receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that themouth is entirely under the head, much in the same way, indeed, asthough your own mouth were entirely under your chin. Moreover youobserve that the whale has no external nose; and that what nose hehas—his spout hole—is on the top of his head; you observe that his eyesand ears are at the sides of his head, nearly one third of his entirelength from the front. Wherefore, you must now have perceived that thefront of the Sperm Whale’s head is a dead, blind wall, without a singleorgan or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever. Furthermore, you arenow to consider that only in the extreme, lower, backward sloping partof the front of the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone; andnot till you get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to thefull cranial development. So that this whole enormous boneless mass isas one wad. Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contentspartly comprise the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprisedof the nature of the substance which so impregnably invests all thatapparent effeminacy. In some previous place I have described to you howthe blubber wraps the body of the whale, as the rind wraps an orange.Just so with the head; but with this difference: about the head thisenvelope, though not so thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimableby any man who has not handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, thesharpest lance darted by the strongest human arm, impotently reboundsfrom it. It is as though the forehead of the Sperm Whale were pavedwith horses’ hoofs. I do not think that any sensation lurks in it.Bethink yourself also of another thing. When two large, loaded Indiamenchance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do thesailors do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of comingcontact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, they holdthere a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest andtoughest of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam whichwould have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. Byitself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. Butsupplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that asordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them,capable, at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale,as far as I know, has no such provision in him; considering, too, theotherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his headaltogether beneath the surface, and anon swims with it high elevatedout of the water; considering the unobstructed elasticity of itsenvelope; considering the unique interior of his head; it hashypothetically occurred to me, I say, that those mystical lung-celledhoneycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown andunsuspected connexion with the outer air, so as to be susceptible toatmospheric distension and contraction. If this be so, fancy theirresistibleness of that might, to which the most impalpable anddestructive of all elements contributes.Now, mark. Unerringly impelling this dead, impregnable, uninjurablewall, and this most buoyant thing within; there swims behind it all amass of tremendous life, only to be adequately estimated as piled woodis—by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as the smallestinsect. So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all thespecialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in thisexpansive monster; when I shall show you some of his moreinconsiderable braining feats; I trust you will have renounced allignorant incredulity, and be ready to abide by this; that though theSperm Whale stove a passage through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixedthe Atlantic with the Pacific, you would not elevate one hair of youreye-brow. For unless you own the whale, you are but a provincial andsentimentalist in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing for salamandergiants only to encounter; how small the chances for the provincialsthen? What befell the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess’s veilat Lais?CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.Now comes the Baling of the Case. But to comprehend it aright, you mustknow something of the curious internal structure of the thing operatedupon.Regarding the Sperm Whale’s head as a solid oblong, you may, on aninclined plane, sideways divide it into two quoins,* whereof the loweris the bony structure, forming the cranium and jaws, and the upper anunctuous mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming theexpanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale. At the middle of theforehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and then you have twoalmost equal parts, which before were naturally divided by an internalwall of a thick tendinous substance.*Quoin is not a Euclidean term. It belongs to the pure nauticalmathematics. I know not that it has been defined before. A quoin is asolid which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by thesteep inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of bothsides.The lower subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb ofoil, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousandinfiltrated cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its wholeextent. The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the greatHeidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce ismystically carved in front, so the whale’s vast plaited forehead formsinnumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of hiswondrous tun. Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenishedwith the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tunof the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oilyvintages; namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure,limpid, and odoriferous state. Nor is this precious substance foundunalloyed in any other part of the creature. Though in life it remainsperfectly fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soonbegins to concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as whenthe first thin delicate ice is just forming in water. A large whale’scase generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm, though fromunavoidable circumstances, considerable of it is spilled, leaks, anddribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklishbusiness of securing what you can.I know not with what fine and costly material the Heidelburgh Tun wascoated within, but in superlative richness that coating could notpossibly have compared with the silken pearl-coloured membrane, likethe lining of a fine pelisse, forming the inner surface of the SpermWhale’s case.It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whaleembraces the entire length of the entire top of the head; and since—ashas been elsewhere set forth—the head embraces one third of the wholelength of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty feetfor a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for thedepth of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against aship’s side.As in decapitating the whale, the operator’s instrument is broughtclose to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into thespermaceti magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lesta careless, untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastinglylet out its invaluable contents. It is this decapitated end of thehead, also, which is at last elevated out of the water, and retained inthat position by the enormous cutting tackles, whose hempencombinations, on one side, make quite a wilderness of ropes in thatquarter.Thus much being said, attend now, I pray you, to that marvellous and—inthis particular instance—almost fatal operation whereby the SpermWhale’s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped.CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.Nimble as a cat, Tashtego mounts aloft; and without altering his erectposture, runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard-arm, to thepart where it exactly projects over the hoisted Tun. He has carriedwith him a light tackle called a whip, consisting of only two parts,travelling through a single-sheaved block. Securing this block, so thatit hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one end of the rope, till itis caught and firmly held by a hand on deck. Then, hand-over-hand, downthe other part, the Indian drops through the air, till dexterously helands on the summit of the head. There—still high elevated above therest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries—he seems some TurkishMuezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower. Ashort-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searchesfor the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun. In this businesshe proceeds very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house,sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in. By the timethis cautious search is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely likea well-bucket, has been attached to one end of the whip; while theother end, being stretched across the deck, is there held by two orthree alert hands. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of theIndian, to whom another person has reached up a very long pole.Inserting this pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward guides thebucket into the Tun, till it entirely disappears; then giving the wordto the seamen at the whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling likea dairy-maid’s pail of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, thefull-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quicklyemptied into a large tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes throughthe same round until the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards theend, Tashtego has to ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeperand deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of the pole have gonedown.Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way;several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at oncea queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wildIndian, was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment hisone-handed hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; orwhether the place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; orwhether the Evil One himself would have it to fall out so, withoutstating his particular reasons; how it was exactly, there is no tellingnow; but, on a sudden, as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket camesuckingly up—my God! poor Tashtego—like the twin reciprocating bucketin a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun ofHeidelburgh, and with a horrible oily gurgling, went clean out ofsight!“Man overboard!” cried Daggoo, who amid the general consternation firstcame to his senses. “Swing the bucket this way!” and putting one footinto it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold on the whipitself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head, almostbefore Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom. Meantime, therewas a terrible tumult. Looking over the side, they saw the beforelifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea,as if that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was onlythe poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilousdepth to which he had sunk.At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was clearingthe whip—which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles—asharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all,one of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with avast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk shipreeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook,upon which the entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to beon the point of giving way; an event still more likely from the violentmotions of the head.“Come down, come down!” yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but with one handholding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should drop, hewould still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul line,rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that theburied harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.“In heaven’s name, man,” cried Stubb, “are you ramming home a cartridgethere?—Avast! How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket ontop of his head? Avast, will ye!”“Stand clear of the tackle!” cried a voice like the bursting of arocket.Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous massdropped into the sea, like Niagara’s Table-Rock into the whirlpool; thesuddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glitteringcopper; and all caught their breath, as half swinging—now over thesailors’ heads, and now over the water—Daggoo, through a thick mist ofspray, was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor,buried-alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of thesea! But hardly had the blinding vapor cleared away, when a nakedfigure with a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one swift moment seenhovering over the bulwarks. The next, a loud splash announced that mybrave Queequeg had dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to theside, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment,and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen. Some handsnow jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from theship.“Ha! ha!” cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perchoverhead; and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrustupright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrustforth from the grass over a grave.“Both! both!—it is both!”—cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout; andsoon after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand, andwith the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into thewaiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego waslong in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk.Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after theslowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made sidelunges near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; thendropping his sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards,and so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon firstthrusting in for him, a leg was presented; but well knowing that thatwas not as it ought to be, and might occasion great trouble;—he hadthrust back the leg, and by a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought asomerset upon the Indian; so that with the next trial, he came forth inthe good old way—head foremost. As for the great head itself, that wasdoing as well as could be expected.And thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics ofQueequeg, the deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, wassuccessfully accomplished, in the teeth, too, of the most untoward andapparently hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to beforgotten. Midwifery should be taught in the same course with fencingand boxing, riding and rowing.I know that this queer adventure of the Gay-Header’s will be sure toseem incredible to some landsmen, though they themselves may haveeither seen or heard of some one’s falling into a cistern ashore; anaccident which not seldom happens, and with much less reason too thanthe Indian’s, considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of theSperm Whale’s well.But, peradventure, it may be sagaciously urged, how is this? We thoughtthe tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest andmost corky part about him; and yet thou makest it sink in an element ofa far greater specific gravity than itself. We have thee there. Not atall, but I have ye; for at the time poor Tash fell in, the case hadbeen nearly emptied of its lighter contents, leaving little but thedense tendinous wall of the well—a double welded, hammered substance,as I have before said, much heavier than the sea water, and a lump ofwhich sinks in it like lead almost. But the tendency to rapid sinkingin this substance was in the present instance materially counteractedby the other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that itsank very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fairchance for performing his agile obstetrics on the run, as you may say.Yes, it was a running delivery, so it was.Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very preciousperishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrantspermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamberand sanctum sanctorum of the whale. Only one sweeter end can readily berecalled—the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honeyin the crotch of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, thatleaning too far over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed. Howmany, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato’s honey head, andsweetly perished there?CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.To scan the lines of his face, or feel the bumps on the head of thisLeviathan; this is a thing which no Physiognomist or Phrenologist hasas yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful asfor Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar,or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of thePantheon. Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats ofthe various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces ofhorses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon themodifications of expression discernible therein. Nor have Gall and hisdisciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching thephrenological characteristics of other beings than man. Therefore,though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application ofthese two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor. I try allthings; I achieve what I can.Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. Hehas no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and mostconspicuous of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies andfinally controls their combined expression; hence it would seem thatits entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely affectthe countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire,cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensableto the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically inkeeping without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose. Dash thenose from Phidias’s marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder!Nevertheless, Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude, all hisproportions are so stately, that the same deficiency which in thesculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no blemish at all. Nay, it isan added grandeur. A nose to the whale would have been impertinent. Ason your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast head in yourjolly-boat, your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by thereflection that he has a nose to be pulled. A pestilent conceit, whichso often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiestroyal beadle on his throne.In some particulars, perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view tobe had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front of his head. Thisaspect is sublime.In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with themorning. In the repose of the pasture, the curled brow of the bull hasa touch of the grand in it. Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles,the elephant’s brow is majestic. Human or animal, the mystical brow isas that great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to theirdecrees. It signifies—“God: done this day by my hand.” But in mostcreatures, nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere stripof alpine land lying along the snow line. Few are the foreheads whichlike Shakespeare’s or Melancthon’s rise so high, and descend so low,that the eyes themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes;and all above them in the forehead’s wrinkles, you seem to track theantlered thoughts descending there to drink, as the Highland hunterstrack the snow prints of the deer. But in the great Sperm Whale, thishigh and mighty god-like dignity inherent in the brow is so immenselyamplified, that gazing on it, in that full front view, you feel theDeity and the dread powers more forcibly than in beholding any otherobject in living nature. For you see no one point precisely; not onedistinct feature is revealed; no nose, eyes, ears, or mouth; no face;he has none, proper; nothing but that one broad firmament of aforehead, pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom of boats,and ships, and men. Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow diminish;though that way viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon you so. Inprofile, you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescenticdepression in the forehead’s middle, which, in man, is Lavater’s markof genius.But how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whale ever written abook, spoken a speech? No, his great genius is declared in his doingnothing particular to prove it. It is moreover declared in hispyramidical silence. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whalebeen known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified bytheir child-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile,because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue,or at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable ofprotrusion. If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shalllure back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; andlivingly enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; in the nowunhaunted hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove’s high seat, the greatSperm Whale shall lord it.Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there isno Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man’s and every being’sface. Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passingfable. If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, couldnot read the simplest peasant’s face in its profounder and more subtlemeanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee ofthe Sperm Whale’s brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if youcan.CHAPTER 80. The Nut.If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologisthis brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible tosquare.In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feetin length. Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of this skull is asthe side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a levelbase. But in life—as we have elsewhere seen—this inclined plane isangularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous superincumbentmass of the junk and sperm. At the high end the skull forms a crater tobed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this crater—inanother cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many indepth—reposes the mere handful of this monster’s brain. The brain is atleast twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden awaybehind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within theamplified fortifications of Quebec. So like a choice casket is itsecreted in him, that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily denythat the Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblanceof one formed by the cubic-yards of his sperm magazine. Lying instrange folds, courses, and convolutions, to their apprehensions, itseems more in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard thatmystic part of him as the seat of his intelligence.It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this Leviathan, inthe creature’s living intact state, is an entire delusion. As for histrue brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any. Thewhale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to thecommon world.If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear viewof its rear end, which is the high end, you will be struck by itsresemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation, and fromthe same point of view. Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled downto the human magnitude) among a plate of men’s skulls, and you wouldinvoluntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions onone part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say—This manhad no self-esteem, and no veneration. And by those negations,considered along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk andpower, you can best form to yourself the truest, though not the mostexhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency is.But if from the comparative dimensions of the whale’s proper brain, youdeem it incapable of being adequately charted, then I have another ideafor you. If you attentively regard almost any quadruped’s spine, youwill be struck with the resemblance of its vertebræ to a strungnecklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance to theskull proper. It is a German conceit, that the vertebræ are absolutelyundeveloped skulls. But the curious external resemblance, I take it theGermans were not the first men to perceive. A foreign friend oncepointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and withthe vertebræ of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, thebeaked prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that the phrenologists haveomitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from thecerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man’scharacter will be found betokened in his backbone. I would rather feelyour spine than your skull, whoever you are. A thin joist of a spinenever yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as inthe firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to theworld.Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His cranialcavity is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebrathe bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, beingeight in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards. Asit passes through the remaining vertebræ the canal tapers in size, butfor a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course,this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance—thespinal cord—as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain. Andwhat is still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain’scavity, the spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost equalto that of the brain. Under all these circumstances, would it beunreasonable to survey and map out the whale’s spine phrenologically?For, viewed in this light, the wonderful comparative smallness of hisbrain proper is more than compensated by the wonderful comparativemagnitude of his spinal cord.But leaving this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, Iwould merely assume the spinal theory for a moment, in reference to theSperm Whale’s hump. This august hump, if I mistake not, rises over oneof the larger vertebræ, and is, therefore, in some sort, the outerconvex mould of it. From its relative situation then, I should callthis high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the SpermWhale. And that the great monster is indomitable, you will yet havereason to know.CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin.The predestinated day arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau,Derick De Deer, master, of Bremen.At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch andGermans are now among the least; but here and there at very wideintervals of latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet withtheir flag in the Pacific.For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects.While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and dropping aboat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing in thebows instead of the stern.“What has he in his hand there?” cried Starbuck, pointing to somethingwavingly held by the German. “Impossible!—a lamp-feeder!”“Not that,” said Stubb, “no, no, it’s a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he’scoming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don’t you see that bigtin can there alongside of him?—that’s his boiling water. Oh! he’s allright, is the Yarman.”“Go along with you,” cried Flask, “it’s a lamp-feeder and an oil-can.He’s out of oil, and has come a-begging.”However curious it may seem for an oil-ship to be borrowing oil on thewhale-ground, and however much it may invertedly contradict the oldproverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes such a thingreally happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer didindubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.As he mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at allheeding what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, the Germansoon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale; immediatelyturning the conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can, with someremarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night inprofound darkness—his last drop of Bremen oil being gone, and not asingle flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency; concluding byhinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technicallycalled a clean one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the nameof Jungfrau or the Virgin.His necessities supplied, Derick departed; but he had not gained hisship’s side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from themast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, thatwithout pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he slewedround his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.Now, the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three Germanboats that soon followed him, had considerably the start of thePequod’s keels. There were eight whales, an average pod. Aware of theirdanger, they were going all abreast with great speed straight beforethe wind, rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses inharness. They left a great, wide wake, as though continually unrollinga great wide parchment upon the sea.Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge,humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well asby the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemedafflicted with the jaundice, or some other infirmity. Whether thiswhale belonged to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it isnot customary for such venerable leviathans to be at all social.Nevertheless, he stuck to their wake, though indeed their back watermust have retarded him, because the white-bone or swell at his broadmuzzle was a dashed one, like the swell formed when two hostilecurrents meet. His spout was short, slow, and laborious; coming forthwith a choking sort of gush, and spending itself in torn shreds,followed by strange subterranean commotions in him, which seemed tohave egress at his other buried extremity, causing the waters behindhim to upbubble.“Who’s got some paregoric?” said Stubb, “he has the stomach-ache, I’mafraid. Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache! Adversewinds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys. It’s the first foul windI ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw sobefore? it must be, he’s lost his tiller.”As an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a deckload of frightened horses, careens, buries, rolls, and wallows on herway; so did this old whale heave his aged bulk, and now and then partlyturning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose the cause of his deviouswake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin. Whether he had lostthat fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were hard to say.“Only wait a bit, old chap, and I’ll give ye a sling for that woundedarm,” cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him.“Mind he don’t sling thee with it,” cried Starbuck. “Give way, or theGerman will have him.”With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this onefish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the mostvaluable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales weregoing with such great velocity, moreover, as almost to defy pursuit forthe time. At this juncture the Pequod’s keels had shot by the threeGerman boats last lowered; but from the great start he had had,Derick’s boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by hisforeign rivals. The only thing they feared, was, that from beingalready so nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his ironbefore they could completely overtake and pass him. As for Derick, heseemed quite confident that this would be the case, and occasionallywith a deriding gesture shook his lamp-feeder at the other boats.“The ungracious and ungrateful dog!” cried Starbuck; “he mocks anddares me with the very poor-box I filled for him not five minutesago!”—then in his old intense whisper—“Give way, greyhounds! Dog toit!”“I tell ye what it is, men”—cried Stubb to his crew—“it’s against myreligion to get mad; but I’d like to eat that villainousYarman—Pull—won’t ye? Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do yelove brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come, whydon’t some of ye burst a blood-vessel? Who’s that been dropping ananchor overboard—we don’t budge an inch—we’re becalmed. Halloo, here’sgrass growing in the boat’s bottom—and by the Lord, the mast there’sbudding. This won’t do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and longof it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?”“Oh! see the suds he makes!” cried Flask, dancing up and down—“What ahump—Oh, do pile on the beef—lays like a log! Oh! my lads, dospring—slap-jacks and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads—baked clamsand muffins—oh, do, do, spring,—he’s a hundred barreller—don’t losehim now—don’t oh, don’t!—see that Yarman—Oh, won’t ye pull for yourduff, my lads—such a sog! such a sogger! Don’t ye love sperm? Theregoes three thousand dollars, men!—a bank!—a whole bank! The bank ofEngland!—Oh, do, do, do!—What’s that Yarman about now?”At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp-feeder at theadvancing boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps with the double view ofretarding his rivals’ way, and at the same time economicallyaccelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the backward toss.“The unmannerly Dutch dogger!” cried Stubb. “Pull now, men, like fiftythousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils. What d’ye say,Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty piecesfor the honor of old Gayhead? What d’ye say?”“I say, pull like god-dam,”—cried the Indian.Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of the German, the Pequod’sthree boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed,momentarily neared him. In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude of theheadsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood upproudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilaratingcry of, “There she slides, now! Hurrah for the white-ash breeze! Downwith the Yarman! Sail over him!”But so decided an original start had Derick had, that spite of alltheir gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this race, had nota righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught theblade of his midship oarsman. While this clumsy lubber was striving tofree his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick’s boat was nighto capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage;—thatwas a good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask. With a shout, they tooka mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German’squarter. An instant more, and all four boats were diagonically in thewhale’s immediate wake, while stretching from them, on both sides, wasthe foaming swell that he made.It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight. The whale wasnow going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continualtormented jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony offright. Now to this hand, now to that, he yawed in his falteringflight, and still at every billow that he broke, he spasmodically sankin the sea, or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin. Sohave I seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circlesin the air, vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks. But the birdhas a voice, and with plaintive cries will make known her fear; but thefear of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained up and enchantedin him; he had no voice, save that choking respiration through hisspiracle, and this made the sight of him unspeakably pitiable; whilestill, in his amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent tail, therewas enough to appal the stoutest man who so pitied.Seeing now that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod’sboats the advantage, and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derickchose to hazard what to him must have seemed a most unusually longdart, ere the last chance would for ever escape.But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke, than allthree tigers—Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo—instinctively sprang to theirfeet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed theirbarbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their threeNantucket irons entered the whale. Blinding vapors of foam andwhite-fire! The three boats, in the first fury of the whale’s headlongrush, bumped the German’s aside with such force, that both Derick andhis baffled harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by the threeflying keels.“Don’t be afraid, my butter-boxes,” cried Stubb, casting a passingglance upon them as he shot by; “ye’ll be picked up presently—allright—I saw some sharks astern—St. Bernard’s dogs, you know—relievedistressed travellers. Hurrah! this is the way to sail now. Every keela sunbeam! Hurrah!—Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of amad cougar! This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in atilbury on a plain—makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten tohim that way; and there’s danger of being pitched out too, when youstrike a hill. Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he’s goingto Davy Jones—all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! thiswhale carries the everlasting mail!”But the monster’s run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, hetumultuously sounded. With a grating rush, the three lines flew roundthe loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them;while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding wouldsoon exhaust the lines, that using all their dexterous might, theycaught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on; till atlast—owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead-lined chocks ofthe boats, whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue—thegunwales of the bows were almost even with the water, while the threesterns tilted high in the air. And the whale soon ceasing to sound, forsome time they remained in that attitude, fearful of expending moreline, though the position was a little ticklish. But though boats havebeen taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this “holding on,” asit is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live flesh fromthe back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon risingagain to meet the sharp lance of his foes. Yet not to speak of theperil of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is alwaysthe best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer thestricken whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted. Because,owing to the enormous surface of him—in a full grown sperm whalesomething less than 2000 square feet—the pressure of the water isimmense. We all know what an astonishing atmospheric weight weourselves stand up under; even here, above-ground, in the air; howvast, then, the burden of a whale, bearing on his back a column of twohundred fathoms of ocean! It must at least equal the weight of fiftyatmospheres. One whaleman has estimated it at the weight of twentyline-of-battle ships, with all their guns, and stores, and men onboard.As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing downinto its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of anysort, nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths;what landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence andplacidity, the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching inagony! Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows.Seems it credible that by three such thin threads the great Leviathanwas suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock. Suspended? andto what? To three bits of board. Is this the creature of whom it wasonce so triumphantly said—“Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons?or his head with fish-spears? The sword of him that layeth at himcannot hold, the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon: he esteemeth ironas straw; the arrow cannot make him flee; darts are counted as stubble;he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!” This the creature? this he? Oh!that unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength ofa thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under themountains of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod’s fish-spears!In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boatssent down beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broadenough to shade half Xerxes’ army. Who can tell how appalling to thewounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head!“Stand by, men; he stirs,” cried Starbuck, as the three lines suddenlyvibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as bymagnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that everyoarsman felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great partfrom the downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounceupwards, as a small icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears arescared from it into the sea.“Haul in! Haul in!” cried Starbuck again; “he’s rising.”The lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand’s breadthcould have been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back alldripping into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within twoship’s lengths of the hunters.His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. In most landanimals there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins,whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantlyshut off in certain directions. Not so with the whale; one of whosepeculiarities it is to have an entire non-valvular structure of theblood-vessels, so that when pierced even by so small a point as aharpoon, a deadly drain is at once begun upon his whole arterialsystem; and when this is heightened by the extraordinary pressure ofwater at a great distance below the surface, his life may be said topour from him in incessant streams. Yet so vast is the quantity ofblood in him, and so distant and numerous its interior fountains, thathe will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period; evenas in a drought a river will flow, whose source is in the well-springsof far-off and undiscernible hills. Even now, when the boats pulledupon this whale, and perilously drew over his swaying flukes, and thelances were darted into him, they were followed by steady jets from thenew made wound, which kept continually playing, while the naturalspout-hole in his head was only at intervals, however rapid, sendingits affrighted moisture into the air. From this last vent no blood yetcame, because no vital part of him had thus far been struck. His life,as they significantly call it, was untouched.As the boats now more closely surrounded him, the whole upper part ofhis form, with much of it that is ordinarily submerged, was plainlyrevealed. His eyes, or rather the places where his eyes had been, werebeheld. As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot-holes of thenoblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which the whale’s eyeshad once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly pitiable to see.But pity there was none. For all his old age, and his one arm, and hisblind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to lightthe gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminatethe solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all toall. Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed astrangely discoloured bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, lowdown on the flank.“A nice spot,” cried Flask; “just let me prick him there once.”“Avast!” cried Starbuck, “there’s no need of that!”But humane Starbuck was too late. At the instant of the dart anulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and goaded by it into morethan sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick blood, with swiftfury blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and their gloryingcrews all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask’s boat and marringthe bows. It was his death stroke. For, by this time, so spent was heby loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he hadmade; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up thewhite secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was mostpiteous, that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water isgradually drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifledmelancholy gurglings the spray-column lowers and lowers to theground—so the last long dying spout of the whale.Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the bodyshowed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled.Immediately, by Starbuck’s orders, lines were secured to it atdifferent points, so that ere long every boat was a buoy; the sunkenwhale being suspended a few inches beneath them by the cords. By veryheedful management, when the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferredto her side, and was strongly secured there by the stiffestfluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially upheld, thebody would at once sink to the bottom.It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade,the entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in hisflesh, on the lower part of the bunch before described. But as thestumps of harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of capturedwhales, with the flesh perfectly healed around them, and no prominenceof any kind to denote their place; therefore, there must needs havebeen some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account forthe ulceration alluded to. But still more curious was the fact of alance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron,the flesh perfectly firm about it. Who had darted that stone lance? Andwhen? It might have been darted by some Nor’ West Indian long beforeAmerica was discovered.What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrouscabinet there is no telling. But a sudden stop was put to furtherdiscoveries, by the ship’s being unprecedentedly dragged over sidewaysto the sea, owing to the body’s immensely increasing tendency to sink.However, Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it tothe last; hung on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length theship would have been capsized, if still persisting in locking arms withthe body; then, when the command was given to break clear from it, suchwas the immovable strain upon the timber-heads to which thefluke-chains and cables were fastened, that it was impossible to castthem off. Meantime everything in the Pequod was aslant. To cross to theother side of the deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of ahouse. The ship groaned and gasped. Many of the ivory inlayings of herbulwarks and cabins were started from their places, by the unnaturaldislocation. In vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon theimmovable fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timberheads; and solow had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be atall approached, while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemedadded to the sinking bulk, and the ship seemed on the point of goingover.“Hold on, hold on, won’t ye?” cried Stubb to the body, “don’t be insuch a devil of a hurry to sink! By thunder, men, we must do somethingor go for it. No use prying there; avast, I say with your handspikes,and run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut the bigchains.”“Knife? Aye, aye,” cried Queequeg, and seizing the carpenter’s heavyhatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and steel to iron, began slashingat the largest fluke-chains. But a few strokes, full of sparks, weregiven, when the exceeding strain effected the rest. With a terrificsnap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the carcase sank.Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed SpermWhale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequatelyaccounted for it. Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with greatbuoyancy, with its side or belly considerably elevated above thesurface. If the only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, andbroken-hearted creatures, their pads of lard diminished and all theirbones heavy and rheumatic; then you might with some reason assert thatthis sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish sosinking, consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. But itis not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling withnoble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May oflife, with all their panting lard about them; even these brawny,buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.Be it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to thisaccident than any other species. Where one of that sort go down, twentyRight Whales do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputablein no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale;his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from thisincumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instanceswhere, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whaleagain rises, more buoyant than in life. But the reason of this isobvious. Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigiousmagnitude; becomes a sort of animal balloon. A line-of-battle shipcould hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings,among the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right Whale gives token ofsinking, they fasten buoys to him, with plenty of rope; so that whenthe body has gone down, they know where to look for it when it shallhave ascended again.It was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard fromthe Pequod’s mast-heads, announcing that the Jungfrau was againlowering her boats; though the only spout in sight was that of aFin-Back, belonging to the species of uncapturable whales, because ofits incredible power of swimming. Nevertheless, the Fin-Back’s spout isso similar to the Sperm Whale’s, that by unskilful fishermen it isoften mistaken for it. And consequently Derick and all his host werenow in valiant chase of this unnearable brute. The Virgin crowding allsail, made after her four young keels, and thus they all disappearedfar to leeward, still in bold, hopeful chase.Oh! many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend.CHAPTER 82. The Honor and Glory of Whaling.There are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is thetrue method.The more I dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches upto the very spring-head of it so much the more am I impressed with itsgreat honorableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so manygreat demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or otherhave shed distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflectionthat I myself belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned afraternity.The gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and tothe eternal honor of our calling be it said, that the first whaleattacked by our brotherhood was not killed with any sordid intent.Those were the knightly days of our profession, when we only bore armsto succor the distressed, and not to fill men’s lamp-feeders. Every oneknows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda; how the lovelyAndromeda, the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the sea-coast,and as Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off, Perseus, theprince of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster, anddelivered and married the maid. It was an admirable artistic exploit,rarely achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch asthis Leviathan was slain at the very first dart. And let no man doubtthis Arkite story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syriancoast, in one of the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vastskeleton of a whale, which the city’s legends and all the inhabitantsasserted to be the identical bones of the monster that Perseus slew.When the Romans took Joppa, the same skeleton was carried to Italy intriumph. What seems most singular and suggestively important in thisstory, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail.Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda—indeed, by some supposedto be indirectly derived from it—is that famous story of St. George andthe Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in manyold chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, andoften stand for each other. “Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as adragon of the sea,” saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; intruth, some versions of the Bible use that word itself. Besides, itwould much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George butencountered a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battlewith the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but onlya Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to marchboldly up to a whale.Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though thecreature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguelyrepresented of a griffin-like shape, and though the battle is depictedon land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the great ignoranceof those times, when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists;and considering that as in Perseus’ case, St. George’s whale might havecrawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that the animalridden by St. George might have been only a large seal, or sea-horse;bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogether incompatiblewith the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene, tohold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself.In fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole storywill fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines,Dagon by name; who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse’shead and both the palms of his hands fell off from him, and only thestump or fishy part of him remained. Thus, then, one of our own noblestamp, even a whaleman, is the tutelary guardian of England; and bygood rights, we harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in the mostnoble order of St. George. And therefore, let not the knights of thathonorable company (none of whom, I venture to say, have ever had to dowith a whale like their great patron), let them never eye a Nantucketerwith disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred trowsers weare much better entitled to St. George’s decoration than they.Whether to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I longremained dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, thatantique Crockett and Kit Carson—that brawny doer of rejoicing gooddeeds, was swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether thatstrictly makes a whaleman of him, that might be mooted. It nowhereappears that he ever actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed, fromthe inside. Nevertheless, he may be deemed a sort of involuntarywhaleman; at any rate the whale caught him, if he did not the whale. Iclaim him for one of our clan.But, by the best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story ofHercules and the whale is considered to be derived from the still moreancient Hebrew story of Jonah and the whale; and vice versâ; certainlythey are very similar. If I claim the demi-god then, why not theprophet?Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the wholeroll of our order. Our grand master is still to be named; for likeroyal kings of old times, we find the head waters of our fraternity innothing short of the great gods themselves. That wondrous orientalstory is now to be rehearsed from the Shaster, which gives us the dreadVishnoo, one of the three persons in the godhead of the Hindoos; givesus this divine Vishnoo himself for our Lord;—Vishnoo, who, by the firstof his ten earthly incarnations, has for ever set apart and sanctifiedthe whale. When Brahma, or the God of Gods, saith the Shaster, resolvedto recreate the world after one of its periodical dissolutions, he gavebirth to Vishnoo, to preside over the work; but the Vedas, or mysticalbooks, whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoobefore beginning the creation, and which therefore must have containedsomething in the shape of practical hints to young architects, theseVedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo becameincarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths,rescued the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? evenas a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?Perseus, St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! there’s amember-roll for you! What club but the whaleman’s can head off likethat?CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale inthe preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rather distrust thishistorical story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were somesceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagansof their times, equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale,and Arion and the dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions didnot make those traditions one whit the less facts, for all that.One old Sag-Harbor whaleman’s chief reason for questioning the Hebrewstory was this:—He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles,embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of which representedJonah’s whale with two spouts in his head—a peculiarity only true withrespect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and thevarieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have thissaying, “A penny roll would choke him”; his swallow is so very small.But, to this, Bishop Jebb’s anticipative answer is ready. It is notnecessary, hints the Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in thewhale’s belly, but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth. Andthis seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop. For truly, the RightWhale’s mouth would accommodate a couple of whist-tables, andcomfortably seat all the players. Possibly, too, Jonah might haveensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on second thoughts, the RightWhale is toothless.Another reason which Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for hiswant of faith in this matter of the prophet, was something obscurely inreference to his incarcerated body and the whale’s gastric juices. Butthis objection likewise falls to the ground, because a German exegetistsupposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of adead whale—even as the French soldiers in the Russian campaign turnedtheir dead horses into tents, and crawled into them. Besides, it hasbeen divined by other continental commentators, that when Jonah wasthrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected hisescape to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for afigure-head; and, I would add, possibly called “The Whale,” as somecraft are nowadays christened the “Shark,” the “Gull,” the “Eagle.” Norhave there been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that thewhale mentioned in the book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver—aninflated bag of wind—which the endangered prophet swam to, and so wassaved from a watery doom. Poor Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted allround. But he had still another reason for his want of faith. It wasthis, if I remember right: Jonah was swallowed by the whale in theMediterranean Sea, and after three days he was vomited up somewherewithin three days’ journey of Nineveh, a city on the Tigris, very muchmore than three days’ journey across from the nearest point of theMediterranean coast. How is that?But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet withinthat short distance of Nineveh? Yes. He might have carried him round bythe way of the Cape of Good Hope. But not to speak of the passagethrough the whole length of the Mediterranean, and another passage upthe Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would involve thecomplete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to speak ofthe Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for anywhale to swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah’s weathering the Cape ofGood Hope at so early a day would wrest the honor of the discovery ofthat great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, andso make modern history a liar.But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced hisfoolish pride of reason—a thing still more reprehensible in him, seeingthat he had but little learning except what he had picked up from thesun and the sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, andabominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by aPortuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah’s going to Ninevehvia the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of thegeneral miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, the highlyenlightened Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah.And some three centuries ago, an English traveller in old Harris’sVoyages, speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honor of Jonah, in whichMosque was a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil.CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.To make them run easily and swiftly, the axles of carriages areanointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform ananalogous operation upon their boat; they grease the bottom. Nor is itto be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it may possiblybe of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water arehostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is tomake the boat slide bravely. Queequeg believed strongly in anointinghis boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfraudisappeared, took more than customary pains in that occupation;crawling under its bottom, where it hung over the side, and rubbing inthe unctuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a crop of hairfrom the craft’s bald keel. He seemed to be working in obedience tosome particular presentiment. Nor did it remain unwarranted by theevent.Towards noon whales were raised; but so soon as the ship sailed down tothem, they turned and fled with swift precipitancy; a disorderedflight, as of Cleopatra’s barges from Actium.Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb’s was foremost. By greatexertion, Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but thestricken whale, without at all sounding, still continued his horizontalflight, with added fleetness. Such unintermitted strainings upon theplanted iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it. It becameimperative to lance the flying whale, or be content to lose him. But tohaul the boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast andfurious. What then remained?Of all the wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand andcountless subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced,none exceed that fine manœuvre with the lance called pitchpoling. Smallsword, or broad sword, in all its exercises boasts nothing like it. Itis only indispensable with an inveterate running whale; its grand factand feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance isaccurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat, under extremeheadway. Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten ortwelve feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of theharpoon, and also of a lighter material—pine. It is furnished with asmall rope called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can behauled back to the hand after darting.But before going further, it is important to mention here, that thoughthe harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance, yet it isseldom done; and when done, is still less frequently successful, onaccount of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon ascompared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks. As ageneral thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, beforeany pitchpoling comes into play.Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous, deliberate coolness andequanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excelin pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of theflying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feetahead. Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice alongits length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathersup the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end inhis grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed. Then holding the lance fullbefore his waistband’s middle, he levels it at the whale; when,covering him with it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand,thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced uponhis palm, fifteen feet in the air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler,balancing a long staff on his chin. Next moment with a rapid, namelessimpulse, in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foamingdistance, and quivers in the life spot of the whale. Instead ofsparkling water, he now spouts red blood.“That drove the spigot out of him!” cried Stubb. “’Tis July’s immortalFourth; all fountains must run wine today! Would now, it were oldOrleans whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela! Then,Tashtego, lad, I’d have ye hold a canakin to the jet, and we’d drinkround it! Yea, verily, hearts alive, we’d brew choice punch in thespread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff theliving stuff.”Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart is repeated,the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilfulleash. The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line isslackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, andmutely watches the monster die.CHAPTER 85. The Fountain.That for six thousand years—and no one knows how many millions of agesbefore—the great whales should have been spouting all over the sea, andsprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep, as with so manysprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some centuries back,thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain of thewhale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings—that all this shouldbe, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarterminutes past one o’clock P.M. of this sixteenth day of December, A.D.1851), it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings are,after all, really water, or nothing but vapor—this is surely anoteworthy thing.Let us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting itemscontingent. Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of theirgills, the finny tribes in general breathe the air which at all timesis combined with the element in which they swim; hence, a herring or acod might live a century, and never once raise its head above thesurface. But owing to his marked internal structure which gives himregular lungs, like a human being’s, the whale can only live byinhaling the disengaged air in the open atmosphere. Wherefore thenecessity for his periodical visits to the upper world. But he cannotin any degree breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude,the Sperm Whale’s mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath thesurface; and what is still more, his windpipe has no connexion with hismouth. No, he breathes through his spiracle alone; and this is on thetop of his head.If I say, that in any creature breathing is only a functionindispensable to vitality, inasmuch as it withdraws from the air acertain element, which being subsequently brought into contact with theblood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle, I do not think Ishall err; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words.Assume it, and it follows that if all the blood in a man could beaerated with one breath, he might then seal up his nostrils and notfetch another for a considerable time. That is to say, he would thenlive without breathing. Anomalous as it may seem, this is precisely thecase with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, his fullhour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single breath, orso much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he hasno gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spinehe is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth ofvermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, arecompletely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour ormore, a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock ofvitality in him, just as the camel crossing the waterless desertcarries a surplus supply of drink for future use in its foursupplementary stomachs. The anatomical fact of this labyrinth isindisputable; and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonableand true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwiseinexplicable obstinacy of that leviathan in having his spoutings out,as the fishermen phrase it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, uponrising to the surface, the Sperm Whale will continue there for a periodof time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested risings. Say hestays eleven minutes, and jets seventy times, that is, respires seventybreaths; then whenever he rises again, he will be sure to have hisseventy breaths over again, to a minute. Now, if after he fetches a fewbreaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging upagain to make good his regular allowance of air. And not till thoseseventy breaths are told, will he finally go down to stay out his fullterm below. Remark, however, that in different individuals these ratesare different; but in any one they are alike. Now, why should the whalethus insist upon having his spoutings out, unless it be to replenishhis reservoir of air, ere descending for good? How obvious is it, too,that this necessity for the whale’s rising exposes him to all the fatalhazards of the chase. For not by hook or by net could this vastleviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand fathoms beneath thesunlight. Not so much thy skill, then, O hunter, as the greatnecessities that strike the victory to thee!In man, breathing is incessantly going on—one breath only serving fortwo or three pulsations; so that whatever other business he has toattend to, waking or sleeping, breathe he must, or die he will. But theSperm Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time.It has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout-hole;if it could truthfully be added that his spouts are mixed with water,then I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense ofsmell seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that atall answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being soclogged with two elements, it could not be expected to have the powerof smelling. But owing to the mystery of the spout—whether it be wateror whether it be vapor—no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived aton this head. Sure it is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has noproper olfactories. But what does he want of them? No roses, noviolets, no Cologne-water in the sea.Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spoutingcanal, and as that long canal—like the grand Erie Canal—is furnishedwith a sort of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention ofair or the upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice;unless you insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles, hetalks through his nose. But then again, what has the whale to say?Seldom have I known any profound being that had anything to say to thisworld, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting aliving. Oh! happy that the world is such an excellent listener!Now, the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it isfor the conveyance of air, and for several feet laid along,horizontally, just beneath the upper surface of his head, and a littleto one side; this curious canal is very much like a gas-pipe laid downin a city on one side of a street. But the question returns whetherthis gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words, whether the spoutof the Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath, or whetherthat exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, anddischarged through the spiracle. It is certain that the mouthindirectly communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot beproved that this is for the purpose of discharging water through thespiracle. Because the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be,when in feeding he accidentally takes in water. But the Sperm Whale’sfood is far beneath the surface, and there he cannot spout even if hewould. Besides, if you regard him very closely, and time him with yourwatch, you will find that when unmolested, there is an undeviatingrhyme between the periods of his jets and the ordinary periods ofrespiration.But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject? Speak out!You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you nottell water from air? My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy tosettle these plain things. I have ever found your plain things theknottiest of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost standin it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.The central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist envelopingit; and how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it,when, always, when you are close enough to a whale to get a close viewof his spout, he is in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading allaround him. And if at such times you should think that you reallyperceived drops of moisture in the spout, how do you know that they arenot merely condensed from its vapor; or how do you know that they arenot those identical drops superficially lodged in the spout-holefissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the whale’s head? Foreven when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day sea in a calm, withhis elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary’s in the desert; even then,the whale always carries a small basin of water on his head, as under ablazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up withrain.Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching theprecise nature of the whale spout. It will not do for him to be peeringinto it, and putting his face in it. You cannot go with your pitcher tothis fountain and fill it, and bring it away. For even when coming intoslight contact with the outer, vapory shreds of the jet, which willoften happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness ofthe thing so touching it. And I know one, who coming into still closercontact with the spout, whether with some scientific object in view, orotherwise, I cannot say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm.Wherefore, among whalemen, the spout is deemed poisonous; they try toevade it. Another thing; I have heard it said, and I do not much doubtit, that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes, it will blindyou. The wisest thing the investigator can do then, it seems to me, isto let this deadly spout alone.Still, we can hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish. Myhypothesis is this: that the spout is nothing but mist. And besidesother reasons, to this conclusion I am impelled, by considerationstouching the great inherent dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale; Iaccount him no common, shallow being, inasmuch as it is an undisputedfact that he is never found on soundings, or near shores; all otherwhales sometimes are. He is both ponderous and profound. And I amconvinced that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings, such asPlato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, there always goesup a certain semi-visible steam, while in the act of thinking deepthoughts. While composing a little treatise on Eternity, I had thecuriosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflectedthere, a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere overmy head. The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deepthought, after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of anAugust noon; this seems an additional argument for the abovesupposition.And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty, misty monster, tobehold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his vast, mildhead overhung by a canopy of vapor, engendered by his incommunicablecontemplations, and that vapor—as you will sometimes see it—glorifiedby a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts.For, d’ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiatevapor. And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in mymind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with aheavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions. Doubts ofall things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; thiscombination makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man whoregards them both with equal eye.CHAPTER 86. The Tail.Other poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope,and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights; less celestial,I celebrate a tail.Reckoning the largest sized Sperm Whale’s tail to begin at that pointof the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprisesupon its upper surface alone, an area of at least fifty square feet.The compact round body of its root expands into two broad, firm, flatpalms or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less than an inch inthickness. At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly overlap,then sideways recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide vacancybetween. In no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitelydefined than in the crescentic borders of these flukes. At its utmostexpansion in the full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceedtwenty feet across.The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cutinto it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:—upper,middle, and lower. The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are longand horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and runningcrosswise between the outside layers. This triune structure, as much asanything else, imparts power to the tail. To the student of old Romanwalls, the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thincourse of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderfulrelics of the antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so much to thegreat strength of the masonry.But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough,the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof ofmuscular fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loinsand running down into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, andlargely contribute to their might; so that in the tail the confluentmeasureless force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point.Could annihilation occur to matter, this were the thing to do it.Nor does this—its amazing strength, at all tend to cripple the gracefulflexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease undulates through aTitanism of power. On the contrary, those motions derive their mostappalling beauty from it. Real strength never impairs beauty orharmony, but it often bestows it; and in everything imposinglybeautiful, strength has much to do with the magic. Take away the tiedtendons that all over seem bursting from the marble in the carvedHercules, and its charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman lifted thelinen sheet from the naked corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed withthe massive chest of the man, that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch.When Angelo paints even God the Father in human form, mark whatrobustness is there. And whatever they may reveal of the divine love inthe Son, the soft, curled, hermaphroditical Italian pictures, in whichhis idea has been most successfully embodied; these pictures, sodestitute as they are of all brawniness, hint nothing of any power, butthe mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance, which onall hands it is conceded, form the peculiar practical virtues of histeachings.Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that whetherwielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood itbe in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace. Thereinno fairy’s arm can transcend it.Five great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin forprogression; Second, when used as a mace in battle; Third, in sweeping;Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.First: Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan’s tail acts in adifferent manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It neverwriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To thewhale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiledforwards beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it isthis which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monsterwhen furiously swimming. His side-fins only serve to steer by.Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm whale onlyfights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in hisconflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. Instriking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and theblow is only inflicted by the recoil. If it be made in the unobstructedair, especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simplyirresistible. No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your onlysalvation lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through theopposing water, then partly owing to the light buoyancy of thewhale-boat, and the elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or adashed plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is generally themost serious result. These submerged side blows are so often receivedin the fishery, that they are accounted mere child’s play. Some onestrips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.Third: I cannot demonstrate it, but it seems to me, that in the whalethe sense of touch is concentrated in the tail; for in this respectthere is a delicacy in it only equalled by the daintiness of theelephant’s trunk. This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action ofsweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain softslowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface ofthe sea; and if he feel but a sailor’s whisker, woe to that sailor,whiskers and all. What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch!Had this tail any prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me ofDarmonodes’ elephant that so frequented the flower-market, and with lowsalutations presented nosegays to damsels, and then caressed theirzones. On more accounts than one, a pity it is that the whale does notpossess this prehensile virtue in his tail; for I have heard of yetanother elephant, that when wounded in the fight, curved round histrunk and extracted the dart.Fourth: Stealing unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of themiddle of solitary seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulenceof his dignity, and kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were ahearth. But still you see his power in his play. The broad palms of histail are flirted high into the air; then smiting the surface, thethunderous concussion resounds for miles. You would almost think agreat gun had been discharged; and if you noticed the light wreath ofvapor from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would think thatthat was the smoke from the touch-hole.Fifth: As in the ordinary floating posture of the leviathan the flukeslie considerably below the level of his back, they are then completelyout of sight beneath the surface; but when he is about to plunge intothe deeps, his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body aretossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a moment, till theydownwards shoot out of view. Excepting the sublime breach—somewhereelse to be described—this peaking of the whale’s flukes is perhaps thegrandest sight to be seen in all animated nature. Out of the bottomlessprofundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at thehighest heaven. So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrustingforth his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell. But ingazing at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in theDantean, the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, thearchangels. Standing at the mast-head of my ship during a sunrise thatcrimsoned sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in the east,all heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert withpeaked flukes. As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodimentof adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home ofthe fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the Africanelephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the mostdevout of all beings. For according to King Juba, the militaryelephants of antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunksuplifted in the profoundest silence.The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and theelephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunkof the other are concerned, should not tend to place those two oppositeorgans on an equality, much less the creatures to which theyrespectively belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier toLeviathan, so, compared with Leviathan’s tail, his trunk is but thestalk of a lily. The most direful blow from the elephant’s trunk wereas the playful tap of a fan, compared with the measureless crush andcrash of the sperm whale’s ponderous flukes, which in repeatedinstances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all theiroars and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses hisballs.**Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale andthe elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular theelephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog doesto the elephant; nevertheless, there are not wanting some points ofcurious similitude; among these is the spout. It is well known that theelephant will often draw up water or dust in his trunk, and thenelevating it, jet it forth in a stream.The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore myinability to express it. At times there are gestures in it, which,though they would well grace the hand of man, remain whollyinexplicable. In an extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, arethese mystic gestures, that I have heard hunters who have declared themakin to Free-Mason signs and symbols; that the whale, indeed, by thesemethods intelligently conversed with the world. Nor are there wantingother motions of the whale in his general body, full of strangeness,and unaccountable to his most experienced assailant. Dissect him how Imay, then, I but go skin deep; I know him not, and never will. But if Iknow not even the tail of this whale, how understand his head? muchmore, how comprehend his face, when face he has none? Thou shalt see myback parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not be seen.But I cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he willabout his face, I say again he has no face.CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada.The long and narrow peninsula of Malacca, extending south-eastward fromthe territories of Birmah, forms the most southerly point of all Asia.In a continuous line from that peninsula stretch the long islands ofSumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many others, form a vastmole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with Australia, anddividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly studdedoriental archipelagoes. This rampart is pierced by several sally-portsfor the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which arethe straits of Sunda and Malacca. By the straits of Sunda, chiefly,vessels bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas.Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standingmidway in that vast rampart of islands, buttressed by that bold greenpromontory, known to seamen as Java Head; they not a little correspondto the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire: andconsidering the inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels,and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of that orientalsea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature, that suchtreasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear theappearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-graspingwestern world. The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied withthose domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to theMediterranean, the Baltic, and the Propontis. Unlike the Danes, theseOrientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails fromthe endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuriespast, by night and by day, have passed between the islands of Sumatraand Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east. But whilethey freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by no means renouncetheir claim to more solid tribute.Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among thelow shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon thevessels sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at thepoint of their spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements theyhave received at the hands of European cruisers, the audacity of thesecorsairs has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at the presentday, we occasionally hear of English and American vessels, which, inthose waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to thesestraits; Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, andthence, cruising northwards, over waters known to be frequented hereand there by the Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands,and gain the far coast of Japan, in time for the great whaling seasonthere. By these means, the circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almostall the known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of the world, previous todescending upon the Line in the Pacific; where Ahab, though everywhereelse foiled in his pursuit, firmly counted upon giving battle to MobyDick, in the sea he was most known to frequent; and at a season when hemight most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.But how now? in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land? does hiscrew drink air? Surely, he will stop for water. Nay. For a long time,now, the circus-running sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needsno sustenance but what’s in himself. So Ahab. Mark this, too, in thewhaler. While other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff, to betransferred to foreign wharves; the world-wandering whale-ship carriesno cargo but herself and crew, their weapons and their wants. She has awhole lake’s contents bottled in her ample hold. She is ballasted withutilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead and kentledge. Shecarries years’ water in her. Clear old prime Nantucket water; which,when three years afloat, the Nantucketer, in the Pacific, prefers todrink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks,from the Peruvian or Indian streams. Hence it is, that, while otherships may have gone to China from New York, and back again, touching ata score of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not havesighted one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floatingseamen like themselves. So that did you carry them the news thatanother flood had come; they would only answer—“Well, boys, here’s theark!”Now, as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast ofJava, in the near vicinity of the Straits of Sunda; indeed, as most ofthe ground, roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as anexcellent spot for cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more andmore upon Java Head, the look-outs were repeatedly hailed, andadmonished to keep wide awake. But though the green palmy cliffs of theland soon loomed on the starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils thefresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet not a single jet wasdescried. Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any gamehereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when thecustomary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacleof singular magnificence saluted us.But here be it premised, that owing to the unwearied activity withwhich of late they have been hunted over all four oceans, the SpermWhales, instead of almost invariably sailing in small detachedcompanies, as in former times, are now frequently met with in extensiveherds, sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would almostseem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league andcovenant for mutual assistance and protection. To this aggregation ofthe Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed thecircumstance that even in the best cruising grounds, you may nowsometimes sail for weeks and months together, without being greeted bya single spout; and then be suddenly saluted by what sometimes seemsthousands on thousands.Broad on both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, andforming a great semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon, acontinuous chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in thenoon-day air. Unlike the straight perpendicular twin-jets of the RightWhale, which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like thecleft drooping boughs of a willow, the single forward-slanting spout ofthe Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist, continuallyrising and falling away to leeward.Seen from the Pequod’s deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill ofthe sea, this host of vapory spouts, individually curling up into theair, and beheld through a blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showedlike the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis, descriedof a balmy autumnal morning, by some horseman on a height.As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in the mountains,accelerate their march, all eagerness to place that perilous passage intheir rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon theplain; even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forwardthrough the straits; gradually contracting the wings of theirsemicircle, and swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.Crowding all sail the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneershandling their weapons, and loudly cheering from the heads of their yetsuspended boats. If the wind only held, little doubt had they, thatchased through these Straits of Sunda, the vast host would only deployinto the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of theirnumber. And who could tell whether, in that congregated caravan, MobyDick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the worshippedwhite-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese! So withstun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these leviathansbefore us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard, loudlydirecting attention to something in our wake.Corresponding to the crescent in our van, we beheld another in ourrear. It seemed formed of detached white vapors, rising and fallingsomething like the spouts of the whales; only they did not socompletely come and go; for they constantly hovered, without finallydisappearing. Levelling his glass at this sight, Ahab quickly revolvedin his pivot-hole, crying, “Aloft there, and rig whips and buckets towet the sails;—Malays, sir, and after us!”As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod shouldfairly have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now inhot pursuit, to make up for their over-cautious delay. But when theswift Pequod, with a fresh leading wind, was herself in hot chase; howvery kind of these tawny philanthropists to assist in speeding her onto her own chosen pursuit,—mere riding-whips and rowels to her, thatthey were. As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; inhis forward turn beholding the monsters he chased, and in the after onethe bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some such fancy as the aboveseemed his. And when he glanced upon the green walls of the waterydefile in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him thatthrough that gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how thatthrough that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to hisdeadly end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild piratesand inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on withtheir curses;—when all these conceits had passed through his brain,Ahab’s brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like the black sand beach aftersome stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag thefirm thing from its place.But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; andwhen, after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern, thePequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatraside, emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond; then, theharpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had beengaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had sovictoriously gained upon the Malays. But still driving on in the wakeof the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually theship neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed tospring to the boats. But no sooner did the herd, by some presumedwonderful instinct of the Sperm Whale, become notified of the threekeels that were after them,—though as yet a mile in their rear,—thanthey rallied again, and forming in close ranks and battalions, so thattheir spouts all looked like flashing lines of stacked bayonets, movedon with redoubled velocity.Stripped to our shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash, andafter several hours’ pulling were almost disposed to renounce thechase, when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animatingtoken that they were now at last under the influence of that strangeperplexity of inert irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive itin the whale, they say he is gallied. The compact martial columns inwhich they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming, were nowbroken up in one measureless rout; and like King Porus’ elephants inthe Indian battle with Alexander, they seemed going mad withconsternation. In all directions expanding in vast irregular circles,and aimlessly swimming hither and thither, by their short thickspoutings, they plainly betrayed their distraction of panic. This wasstill more strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completelyparalysed as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantledships on the sea. Had these Leviathans been but a flock of simplesheep, pursued over the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could notpossibly have evinced such excessive dismay. But this occasionaltimidity is characteristic of almost all herding creatures. Thoughbanding together in tens of thousands, the lion-maned buffaloes of theWest have fled before a solitary horseman. Witness, too, all humanbeings, how when herded together in the sheepfold of a theatre’s pit,they will, at the slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for theoutlets, crowding, trampling, jamming, and remorselessly dashing eachother to death. Best, therefore, withhold any amazement at thestrangely gallied whales before us, for there is no folly of the beastsof the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of men.Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced norretreated, but collectively remained in one place. As is customary inthose cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one lonewhale on the outskirts of the shoal. In about three minutes’ time,Queequeg’s harpoon was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding sprayin our faces, and then running away with us like light, steeredstraight for the heart of the herd. Though such a movement on the partof the whale struck under such circumstances, is in no wiseunprecedented; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated;yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of thefishery. For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into thefrantic shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in adelirious throb.As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power ofspeed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as wethus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, bythe crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat waslike a ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steerthrough their complicated channels and straits, knowing not at whatmoment it may be locked in and crushed.But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering offfrom this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging awayfrom that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all thetime, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of ourway whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was notime to make long ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though theirwonted duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended tothe shouting part of the business. “Out of the way, Commodore!” criedone, to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface,and for an instant threatened to swamp us. “Hard down with your tail,there!” cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemedcalmly cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity.All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, originally inventedby the Nantucket Indians, called druggs. Two thick squares of wood ofequal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they cross eachother’s grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is thenattached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the linebeing looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon. It ischiefly among gallied whales that this drugg is used. For then, morewhales are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time. Butsperm whales are not every day encountered; while you may, then, youmust kill all you can. And if you cannot kill them all at once, youmust wing them, so that they can be afterwards killed at your leisure.Hence it is, that at times like these the drugg, comes intorequisition. Our boat was furnished with three of them. The first andsecond were successfully darted, and we saw the whales staggeringlyrunning off, fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the towingdrugg. They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball. Butupon flinging the third, in the act of tossing overboard the clumsywooden block, it caught under one of the seats of the boat, and in aninstant tore it out and carried it away, dropping the oarsman in theboat’s bottom as the seat slid from under him. On both sides the seacame in at the wounded planks, but we stuffed two or three drawers andshirts in, and so stopped the leaks for the time.It had been next to impossible to dart these drugged-harpoons, were itnot that as we advanced into the herd, our whale’s way greatlydiminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further fromthe circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning. Sothat when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whalesideways vanished; then, with the tapering force of his partingmomentum, we glided between two whales into the innermost heart of theshoal, as if from some mountain torrent we had slid into a serenevalley lake. Here the storms in the roaring glens between the outermostwhales, were heard but not felt. In this central expanse the seapresented that smooth satin-like surface, called a sleek, produced bythe subtle moisture thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods.Yes, we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at theheart of every commotion. And still in the distracted distance webeheld the tumults of the outer concentric circles, and saw successivepods of whales, eight or ten in each, swiftly going round and round,like multiplied spans of horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder toshoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might easily have over-arched themiddle ones, and so have gone round on their backs. Owing to thedensity of the crowd of reposing whales, more immediately surroundingthe embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of escape was atpresent afforded us. We must watch for a breach in the living wall thathemmed us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut usup. Keeping at the centre of the lake, we were occasionally visited bysmall tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host.Now, inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolvingouter circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods inany one of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced bythe whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three squaremiles. At any rate—though indeed such a test at such a time might bedeceptive—spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that seemedplaying up almost from the rim of the horizon. I mention thiscircumstance, because, as if the cows and calves had been purposelylocked up in this innermost fold; and as if the wide extent of the herdhad hitherto prevented them from learning the precise cause of itsstopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and every wayinnocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these smallerwhales—now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of thelake—evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a stillbecharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at. Likehousehold dogs they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales,and touching them; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenlydomesticated them. Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratchedtheir backs with his lance; but fearful of the consequences, for thetime refrained from darting it.But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and stillstranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side. For, suspendedin those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of thewhales, and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to becomemothers. The lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depthexceedingly transparent; and as human infants while suckling willcalmly and fixedly gaze away from the breast, as if leading twodifferent lives at the time; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment,be still spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence;—even sodid the young of these whales seem looking up towards us, but not atus, as if we were but a bit of Gulfweed in their new-born sight.Floating on their sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us. Oneof these little infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly aday old, might have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some sixfeet in girth. He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemedscarce yet recovered from that irksome position it had so latelyoccupied in the maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all readyfor the final spring, the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar’s bow.The delicate side-fins, and the palms of his flukes, still freshlyretained the plaited crumpled appearance of a baby’s ears newly arrivedfrom foreign parts.“Line! line!” cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; “him fast! himfast!—Who line him! Who struck?—Two whale; one big, one little!”“What ails ye, man?” cried Starbuck.“Look-e here,” said Queequeg, pointing down.As when the stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundredsof fathoms of rope; as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, andshows the slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spirallingtowards the air; so now, Starbuck saw long coils of the umbilical cordof Madame Leviathan, by which the young cub seemed still tethered toits dam. Not seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase, thisnatural line, with the maternal end loose, becomes entangled with thehempen one, so that the cub is thereby trapped. Some of the subtlestsecrets of the seas seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond. Wesaw young Leviathan amours in the deep.**The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, butunlike most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after agestation which may probably be set down at nine months, producing butone at a time; though in some few known instances giving birth to anEsau and Jacob:—a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats,curiously situated, one on each side of the anus; but the breaststhemselves extend upwards from that. When by chance these preciousparts in a nursing whale are cut by the hunter’s lance, the mother’spouring milk and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milkis very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do wellwith strawberries. When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whalessalute more hominum.And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations andaffrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely andfearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely revelledin dalliance and delight. But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic ofmy being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm;and while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep downand deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.Meanwhile, as we thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden franticspectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats,still engaged in drugging the whales on the frontier of the host; orpossibly carrying on the war within the first circle, where abundanceof room and some convenient retreats were afforded them. But the sightof the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and froacross the circles, was nothing to what at last met our eyes. It issometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerfuland alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering ormaiming his gigantic tail-tendon. It is done by darting a short-handledcutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again. Awhale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but noteffectually, as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carryingalong with him half of the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agonyof the wound, he was now dashing among the revolving circles like thelone mounted desperado Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carryingdismay wherever he went.But agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appallingspectacle enough, any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemedto inspire the rest of the herd, was owing to a cause which at firstthe intervening distance obscured from us. But at length we perceivedthat by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery, this whalehad become entangled in the harpoon-line that he towed; he had also runaway with the cutting-spade in him; and while the free end of the ropeattached to that weapon, had permanently caught in the coils of theharpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had worked loosefrom his flesh. So that tormented to madness, he was now churningthrough the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, andtossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his owncomrades.This terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from theirstationary fright. First, the whales forming the margin of our lakebegan to crowd a little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted byhalf spent billows from afar; then the lake itself began faintly toheave and swell; the submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished;in more and more contracting orbits the whales in the more centralcircles began to swim in thickening clusters. Yes, the long calm wasdeparting. A low advancing hum was soon heard; and then like to thetumultuous masses of block-ice when the great river Hudson breaks up inSpring, the entire host of whales came tumbling upon their innercentre, as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain. InstantlyStarbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern.“Oars! Oars!” he intensely whispered, seizing the helm—“gripe youroars, and clutch your souls, now! My God, men, stand by! Shove him off,you Queequeg—the whale there!—prick him!—hit him! Stand up—stand up,and stay so! Spring, men—pull, men; never mind their backs—scrapethem!—scrape away!”The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving anarrow Dardanelles between their long lengths. But by desperateendeavor we at last shot into a temporary opening; then giving wayrapidly, and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet.After many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last swiftly glided intowhat had just been one of the outer circles, but now crossed by randomwhales, all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation wascheaply purchased by the loss of Queequeg’s hat, who, while standing inthe bows to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from hishead by the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broadflukes close by.Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soonresolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for havingclumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed theironward flight with augmented fleetness. Further pursuit was useless;but the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what druggedwhales might be dropped astern, and likewise to secure one which Flaskhad killed and waifed. The waif is a pennoned pole, two or three ofwhich are carried by every boat; and which, when additional game is athand, are inserted upright into the floating body of a dead whale, bothto mark its place on the sea, and also as token of prior possession,should the boats of any other ship draw near.The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacioussaying in the Fishery,—the more whales the less fish. Of all thedrugged whales only one was captured. The rest contrived to escape forthe time, but only to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by someother craft than the Pequod.CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schoolmasters.The previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of SpermWhales, and there was also then given the probable cause inducing thosevast aggregations.Now, though such great bodies are at times encountered, yet, as musthave been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands areoccasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each.Such bands are known as schools. They generally are of two sorts; thosecomposed almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but youngvigorous males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.In cavalier attendance upon the school of females, you invariably see amale of full grown magnitude, but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinceshis gallantry by falling in the rear and covering the flight of hisladies. In truth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming aboutover the watery world, surroundingly accompanied by all the solaces andendearments of the harem. The contrast between this Ottoman and hisconcubines is striking; because, while he is always of the largestleviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full growth, are not morethan one-third of the bulk of an average-sized male. They arecomparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a dozenyards round the waist. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon thewhole they are hereditarily entitled to en bon point.It is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolentramblings. Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move inleisurely search of variety. You meet them on the Line in time for thefull flower of the Equatorial feeding season, having just returned,perhaps, from spending the summer in the Northern seas, and so cheatingsummer of all unpleasant weariness and warmth. By the time they havelounged up and down the promenade of the Equator awhile, they start forthe Oriental waters in anticipation of the cool season there, and soevade the other excessive temperature of the year.When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strangesuspicious sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on hisinteresting family. Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathancoming that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of theladies, with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chaseshim away! High times, indeed, if unprincipled young rakes like him areto be permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss; though dowhat the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out ofhis bed; for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies oftencause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so withthe whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. Theyfence with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, andso striving for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave theirantlers. Not a few are captured having the deep scars of theseencounters,—furrowed heads, broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in someinstances, wrenched and dislocated mouths.But supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away atthe first rush of the harem’s lord, then is it very diverting to watchthat lord. Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again andrevels there awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario,like pious Solomon devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines.Granting other whales to be in sight, the fishermen will seldom givechase to one of these Grand Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavishof their strength, and hence their unctuousness is small. As for thesons and the daughters they beget, why, those sons and daughters musttake care of themselves; at least, with only the maternal help. Forlike certain other omnivorous roving lovers that might be named, myLord Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower;and so, being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies allover the world; every baby an exotic. In good time, nevertheless, asthe ardour of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; asreflection lends her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitudeovertakes the sated Turk; then a love of ease and virtue supplants thelove for maidens; our Ottoman enters upon the impotent, repentant,admonitory stage of life, forswears, disbands the harem, and grown toan exemplary, sulky old soul, goes about all alone among the meridiansand parallels saying his prayers, and warning each young Leviathan fromhis amorous errors.Now, as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school, so isthe lord and master of that school technically known as theschoolmaster. It is therefore not in strict character, howeveradmirably satirical, that after going to school himself, he should thengo abroad inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly of it.His title, schoolmaster, would very naturally seem derived from thename bestowed upon the harem itself, but some have surmised that theman who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must have readthe memoirs of Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of acountry-schoolmaster that famous Frenchman was in his younger days, andwhat was the nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some ofhis pupils.The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whalebetakes himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged SpermWhales. Almost universally, a lone whale—as a solitary Leviathan iscalled—proves an ancient one. Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone,he will have no one near him but Nature herself; and her he takes towife in the wilderness of waters, and the best of wives she is, thoughshe keeps so many moody secrets.The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previouslymentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools. For whilethose female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, orforty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnaciousof all Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter;excepting those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met,and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools. Like amob of young collegians, they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness,tumbling round the world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that noprudent underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotouslad at Yale or Harvard. They soon relinquish this turbulence though,and when about three-fourths grown, break up, and separately go aboutin quest of settlements, that is, harems.Another point of difference between the male and female schools isstill more characteristic of the sexes. Say you strike aForty-barrel-bull—poor devil! all his comrades quit him. But strike amember of the harem school, and her companions swim around her withevery token of concern, sometimes lingering so near her and so long, asthemselves to fall a prey.CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.The allusion to the waif and waif-poles in the last chapter but one,necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whalefishery, of which the waif may be deemed the grand symbol and badge.It frequently happens that when several ships are cruising in company,a whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and be finally killedand captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly comprisedmany minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature. Forexample,—after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale, thebody may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; anddrifting far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in acalm, snugly tows it alongside, without risk of life or line. Thus themost vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between thefishermen, were there not some written or unwritten, universal,undisputed law applicable to all cases.Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislativeenactment, was that of Holland. It was decreed by the States-General inA.D. 1695. But though no other nation has ever had any written whalinglaw, yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators andlawyers in this matter. They have provided a system which for tersecomprehensiveness surpasses Justinian’s Pandects and the By-laws of theChinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People’sBusiness. Yes; these laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne’s farthing,or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so small are they.I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.II. A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.But what plays the mischief with this masterly code is the admirablebrevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries toexpound it.First: What is a Fast-Fish? Alive or dead a fish is technically fast,when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium atall controllable by the occupant or occupants,—a mast, an oar, anine-inch cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all thesame. Likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or anyother recognised symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing itplainly evince their ability at any time to take it alongside, as wellas their intention so to do.These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalementhemselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks—theCoke-upon-Littleton of the fist. True, among the more upright andhonorable whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases, whereit would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claimpossession of a whale previously chased or killed by another party. Butothers are by no means so scrupulous.Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover litigatedin England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase ofa whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs) hadsucceeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril oftheir lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boatitself. Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came upwith the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated itbefore the very eyes of the plaintiffs. And when those defendants wereremonstrated with, their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs’teeth, and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he haddone, he would now retain their line, harpoons, and boat, which hadremained attached to the whale at the time of the seizure. Whereforethe plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale,line, harpoons, and boat.Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was thejudge. In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on toillustrate his position, by alluding to a recent crim. con. case,wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife’sviciousness, had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life; but inthe course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action torecover possession of her. Erskine was on the other side; and he thensupported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originallyharpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason ofthe great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at last abandonedher; yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; andtherefore when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady thenbecame that subsequent gentleman’s property, along with whateverharpoon might have been found sticking in her.Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples of thewhale and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other.These pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the verylearned judge in set terms decided, to wit,—That as for the boat, heawarded it to the plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it tosave their lives; but that with regard to the controverted whale,harpoons, and line, they belonged to the defendants; the whale, becauseit was a Loose-Fish at the time of the final capture; and the harpoonsand line because when the fish made off with them, it (the fish)acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody who afterwardstook the fish had a right to them. Now the defendants afterwards tookthe fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs.A common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, mightpossibly object to it. But ploughed up to the primary rock of thematter, the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling lawspreviously quoted, and applied and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough inthe above cited case; these two laws touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish,I say, will, on reflection, be found the fundamentals of all humanjurisprudence; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery ofsculpture, the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the Philistines,has but two props to stand on.Is it not a saying in every one’s mouth, Possession is half of the law:that is, regardless of how the thing came into possession? But oftenpossession is the whole of the law. What are the sinews and souls ofRussian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possessionis the whole of the law? What to the rapacious landlord is the widow’slast mite but a Fast-Fish? What is yonder undetected villain’s marblemansion with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish?What is the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets from poorWoebegone, the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone’s family fromstarvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish? What is theArchbishop of Savesoul’s income of £100,000 seized from the scant breadand cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sureof heaven without any of Savesoul’s help) what is that globular£100,000 but a Fast-Fish? What are the Duke of Dunder’s hereditarytowns and hamlets but Fast-Fish? What to that redoubted harpooneer,John Bull, is poor Ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostoliclancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish? And concerning allthese, is not Possession the whole of the law?But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, thekindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That isinternationally and universally applicable.What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck theSpanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master andmistress? What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? WhatIndia to England? What at last will Mexico be to the United States? AllLoose-Fish.What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World butLoose-Fish? What all men’s minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What isthe principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish? What to theostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers butLoose-Fish? What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And whatare you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.“De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam.”Bracton, l. 3, c. 3.Latin from the books of the Laws of England, which taken along with thecontext, means, that of all whales captured by anybody on the coast ofthat land, the King, as Honorary Grand Harpooneer, must have the head,and the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail. A divisionwhich, in the whale, is much like halving an apple; there is nointermediate remainder. Now as this law, under a modified form, is tothis day in force in England; and as it offers in various respects astrange anomaly touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it ishere treated of in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principlethat prompts the English railways to be at the expense of a separatecar, specially reserved for the accommodation of royalty. In the firstplace, in curious proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law isstill in force, I proceed to lay before you a circumstance thathappened within the last two years.It seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some oneof the Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing andbeaching a fine whale which they had originally descried afar off fromthe shore. Now the Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under thejurisdiction of a sort of policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.Holding the office directly from the crown, I believe, all the royalemoluments incident to the Cinque Port territories become by assignmenthis. By some writers this office is called a sinecure. But not so.Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times in fobbing hisperquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing ofthem.Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and with theirtrowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled theirfat fish high and dry, promising themselves a good £150 from theprecious oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with theirwives, and good ale with their cronies, upon the strength of theirrespective shares; up steps a very learned and most Christian andcharitable gentleman, with a copy of Blackstone under his arm; andlaying it upon the whale’s head, he says—“Hands off! this fish, mymasters, is a Fast-Fish. I seize it as the Lord Warden’s.” Upon thisthe poor mariners in their respectful consternation—so trulyEnglish—knowing not what to say, fall to vigorously scratching theirheads all round; meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to thestranger. But that did in nowise mend the matter, or at all soften thehard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone. Atlength one of them, after long scratching about for his ideas, madebold to speak,“Please, sir, who is the Lord Warden?”“The Duke.”“But the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish?”“It is his.”“We have been at great trouble, and peril, and some expense, and is allthat to go to the Duke’s benefit; we getting nothing at all for ourpains but our blisters?”“It is his.”“Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode ofgetting a livelihood?”“It is his.”“I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by part of my share ofthis whale.”“It is his.”“Won’t the Duke be content with a quarter or a half?”“It is his.”In a word, the whale was seized and sold, and his Grace the Duke ofWellington received the money. Thinking that viewed in some particularlights, the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree bedeemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergymanof the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him totake the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. Towhich my Lord Duke in substance replied (both letters were published)that he had already done so, and received the money, and would beobliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverendgentleman) would decline meddling with other people’s business. Is thisthe still militant old man, standing at the corners of the threekingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?It will readily be seen that in this case the alleged right of the Duketo the whale was a delegated one from the Sovereign. We must needsinquire then on what principle the Sovereign is originally investedwith that right. The law itself has already been set forth. But Plowdongives us the reason for it. Says Plowdon, the whale so caught belongsto the King and Queen, “because of its superior excellence.” And by thesoundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in suchmatters.But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the tail? A reasonfor that, ye lawyers!In his treatise on “Queen-Gold,” or Queen-pinmoney, an old King’s Benchauthor, one William Prynne, thus discourseth: “Ye tail is ye Queen’s,that ye Queen’s wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone.” Now thiswas written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland orRight whale was largely used in ladies’ bodices. But this same bone isnot in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for asagacious lawyer like Prynne. But is the Queen a mermaid, to bepresented with a tail? An allegorical meaning may lurk here.There are two royal fish so styled by the English law writers—the whaleand the sturgeon; both royal property under certain limitations, andnominally supplying the tenth branch of the crown’s ordinary revenue. Iknow not that any other author has hinted of the matter; but byinference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the sameway as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and elastic headpeculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may possibly behumorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality. And thus thereseems a reason in all things, even in law.CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.“In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of thisLeviathan, insufferable fetor denying not inquiry.” Sir T. Browne,V.E.It was a week or two after the last whaling scene recounted, and whenwe were slowly sailing over a sleepy, vapory, mid-day sea, that themany noses on the Pequod’s deck proved more vigilant discoverers thanthe three pairs of eyes aloft. A peculiar and not very pleasant smellwas smelt in the sea.“I will bet something now,” said Stubb, “that somewhere hereabouts aresome of those drugged whales we tickled the other day. I thought theywould keel up before long.”Presently, the vapors in advance slid aside; and there in the distancelay a ship, whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale mustbe alongside. As we glided nearer, the stranger showed French coloursfrom his peak; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl thatcircled, and hovered, and swooped around him, it was plain that thewhale alongside must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale, thatis, a whale that has died unmolested on the sea, and so floated anunappropriated corpse. It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odorsuch a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague,when the living are incompetent to bury the departed. So intolerableindeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them tomoor alongside of it. Yet are there those who will still do it;notwithstanding the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is ofa very inferior quality, and by no means of the nature ofattar-of-rose.Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchmanhad a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed even more ofa nosegay than the first. In truth, it turned out to be one of thoseproblematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort ofprodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving their defunct bodiesalmost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Nevertheless, in theproper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn uphis nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun blastedwhales in general.The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed herecognised his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines that wereknotted round the tail of one of these whales.“There’s a pretty fellow, now,” he banteringly laughed, standing in theship’s bows, “there’s a jackal for ye! I well know that these Crappoesof Frenchmen are but poor devils in the fishery; sometimes loweringtheir boats for breakers, mistaking them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes,and sometimes sailing from their port with their hold full of boxes oftallow candles, and cases of snuffers, foreseeing that all the oil theywill get won’t be enough to dip the Captain’s wick into; aye, we allknow these things; but look ye, here’s a Crappo that is content withour leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and is content toowith scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there.Poor devil! I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let’s make him apresent of a little oil for dear charity’s sake. For what oil he’ll getfrom that drugged whale there, wouldn’t be fit to burn in a jail; no,not in a condemned cell. And as for the other whale, why, I’ll agree toget more oil by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours,than he’ll get from that bundle of bones; though, now that I think ofit, it may contain something worth a good deal more than oil; yes,ambergris. I wonder now if our old man has thought of that. It’s worthtrying. Yes, I’m for it;” and so saying he started for thequarter-deck.By this time the faint air had become a complete calm; so that whetheror no, the Pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell, with no hopeof escaping except by its breezing up again. Issuing from the cabin,Stubb now called his boat’s crew, and pulled off for the stranger.Drawing across her bow, he perceived that in accordance with thefanciful French taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved inthe likeness of a huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and forthorns had copper spikes projecting from it here and there; the wholeterminating in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour. Uponher head boards, in large gilt letters, he read “Bouton deRose,”—Rose-button, or Rose-bud; and this was the romantic name of thisaromatic ship.Though Stubb did not understand the Bouton part of the inscription,yet the word rose, and the bulbous figure-head put together,sufficiently explained the whole to him.“A wooden rose-bud, eh?” he cried with his hand to his nose, “that willdo very well; but how like all creation it smells!”Now in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck, hehad to pull round the bows to the starboard side, and thus come closeto the blasted whale; and so talk over it.Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, hebawled—“Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy! are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses thatspeak English?”“Yes,” rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to bethe chief-mate.“Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?”“What whale?”“The White Whale—a Sperm Whale—Moby Dick, have ye seen him?“Never heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale—no.”“Very good, then; good bye now, and I’ll call again in a minute.”Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaningover the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his twohands into a trumpet and shouted—“No, Sir! No!” Upon which Ahabretired, and Stubb returned to the Frenchman.He now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into thechains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort ofbag.“What’s the matter with your nose, there?” said Stubb. “Broke it?”“I wish it was broken, or that I didn’t have any nose at all!” answeredthe Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at verymuch. “But what are you holding yours for?”“Oh, nothing! It’s a wax nose; I have to hold it on. Fine day, ain’tit? Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, willye, Bouton-de-Rose?”“What in the devil’s name do you want here?” roared the Guernseyman,flying into a sudden passion.“Oh! keep cool—cool? yes, that’s the word! why don’t you pack thosewhales in ice while you’re working at ’em? But joking aside, though; doyou know, Rose-bud, that it’s all nonsense trying to get any oil out ofsuch whales? As for that dried up one, there, he hasn’t a gill in hiswhole carcase.”“I know that well enough; but, d’ye see, the Captain here won’t believeit; this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before. Butcome aboard, and mayhap he’ll believe you, if he won’t me; and so I’llget out of this dirty scrape.”“Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow,” rejoined Stubb,and with that he soon mounted to the deck. There a queer scenepresented itself. The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, weregetting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales. But they workedrather slow and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a goodhumor. All their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so manyjib-booms. Now and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run upto the mast-head to get some fresh air. Some thinking they would catchthe plague, dipped oakum in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to theirnostrils. Others having broken the stems of their pipes almost shortoff at the bowl, were vigorously puffing tobacco-smoke, so that itconstantly filled their olfactories.Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding fromthe Captain’s round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw afiery face thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar fromwithin. This was the tormented surgeon, who, after in vainremonstrating against the proceedings of the day, had betaken himselfto the Captain’s round-house (cabinet he called it) to avoid thepest; but still, could not help yelling out his entreaties andindignations at times.Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to theGuernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mateexpressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus, whohad brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle.Sounding him carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-manhad not the slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris. He thereforeheld his peace on that head, but otherwise was quite frank andconfidential with him, so that the two quickly concocted a little planfor both circumventing and satirizing the Captain, without his at alldreaming of distrusting their sincerity. According to this little planof theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an interpreter’s office,was to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming from Stubb; andas for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermostin him during the interview.By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin. He was asmall and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, withlarge whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvetvest with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was nowpolitely introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously puton the aspect of interpreting between them.“What shall I say to him first?” said he.“Why,” said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals, “youmay as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me,though I don’t pretend to be a judge.”“He says, Monsieur,” said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to hiscaptain, “that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captainand chief-mate, with six sailors, had all died of a fever caught from ablasted whale they had brought alongside.”Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.“What now?” said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.“Why, since he takes it so easy, tell him that now I have eyed himcarefully, I’m quite certain that he’s no more fit to command awhale-ship than a St. Jago monkey. In fact, tell him from me he’s ababoon.”“He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one,is far more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjuresus, as we value our lives, to cut loose from these fish.”Instantly the captain ran forward, and in a loud voice commanded hiscrew to desist from hoisting the cutting-tackles, and at once castloose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship.“What now?” said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned tothem.“Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that—that—in fact,tell him I’ve diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps somebodyelse.”“He says, Monsieur, that he’s very happy to have been of any service tous.”Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties(meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down intohis cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.“He wants you to take a glass of wine with him,” said the interpreter.“Thank him heartily; but tell him it’s against my principles to drinkwith the man I’ve diddled. In fact, tell him I must go.”“He says, Monsieur, that his principles won’t admit of his drinking;but that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then Monsieurhad best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these whales,for it’s so calm they won’t drift.”By this time Stubb was over the side, and getting into his boat, hailedthe Guernsey-man to this effect,—that having a long tow-line in hisboat, he would do what he could to help them, by pulling out thelighter whale of the two from the ship’s side. While the Frenchman’sboats, then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubbbenevolently towed away at his whale the other way, ostentatiouslyslacking out a most unusually long tow-line.Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb feigned to cast off from the whale;hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon increased his distance, whilethe Pequod slid in between him and Stubb’s whale. Whereupon Stubbquickly pulled to the floating body, and hailing the Pequod to givenotice of his intentions, at once proceeded to reap the fruit of hisunrighteous cunning. Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced anexcavation in the body, a little behind the side fin. You would almosthave thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea; and when atlength his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning upold Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam. His boat’s crewwere all in high excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and lookingas anxious as gold-hunters.And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, andscreaming, and yelling, and fighting around them. Stubb was beginningto look disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased,when suddenly from out the very heart of this plague, there stole afaint stream of perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smellswithout being absorbed by it, as one river will flow into and thenalong with another, without at all blending with it for a time.“I have it, I have it,” cried Stubb, with delight, striking somethingin the subterranean regions, “a purse! a purse!”Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls ofsomething that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled oldcheese; very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it withyour thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this,good friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to anydruggist. Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidablylost in the sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured wereit not for impatient Ahab’s loud command to Stubb to desist, and comeon board, else the ship would bid them good bye.CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.Now this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as anarticle of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born CaptainCoffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on thatsubject. For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day,the precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problemto the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compoundfor grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber,though at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some farinland soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea.Besides, amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance,used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ambergrisis soft, waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy, that it is largelyused in perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles, hair-powders, andpomatum. The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to Mecca, forthe same purpose that frankincense is carried to St. Peter’s in Rome.Some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.Who would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen shouldregale themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of asick whale! Yet so it is. By some, ambergris is supposed to be thecause, and by others the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale. How tocure such a dyspepsia it were hard to say, unless by administeringthree or four boat loads of Brandreth’s pills, and then running out ofharm’s way, as laborers do in blasting rocks.I have forgotten to say that there were found in this ambergris,certain hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought might besailors’ trowsers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they werenothing more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should befound in the heart of such decay; is this nothing? Bethink thee of thatsaying of St. Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption;how that we are sown in dishonor, but raised in glory. And likewisecall to mind that saying of Paracelsus about what it is that maketh thebest musk. Also forget not the strange fact that of all things ofill-savor, Cologne-water, in its rudimental manufacturing stages, isthe worst.I should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal, butcannot, owing to my anxiety to repel a charge often made againstwhalemen, and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds,might be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been saidof the Frenchman’s two whales. Elsewhere in this volume the slanderousaspersion has been disproved, that the vocation of whaling isthroughout a slatternly, untidy business. But there is another thing torebut. They hint that all whales always smell bad. Now how did thisodious stigma originate?I opine, that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of theGreenland whaling ships in London, more than two centuries ago. Becausethose whalemen did not then, and do not now, try out their oil at seaas the Southern ships have always done; but cutting up the freshblubber in small bits, thrust it through the bung holes of large casks,and carry it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in thoseIcy Seas, and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed,forbidding any other course. The consequence is, that upon breakinginto the hold, and unloading one of these whale cemeteries, in theGreenland dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arisingfrom excavating an old city grave-yard, for the foundations of aLying-in Hospital.I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may belikewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in formertimes, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, whichlatter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his greatwork on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports(smeer, fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order toafford a place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be triedout, without being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was acollection of furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the workswere in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor. Butall this is quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in avoyage of four years perhaps, after completely filling her hold withoil, does not, perhaps, consume fifty days in the business of boilingout; and in the state that it is casked, the oil is nearly scentless.The truth is, that living or dead, if but decently treated, whales as aspecies are by no means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen berecognised, as the people of the middle ages affected to detect a Jewin the company, by the nose. Nor indeed can the whale possibly beotherwise than fragrant, when, as a general thing, he enjoys such highhealth; taking abundance of exercise; always out of doors; though, itis true, seldom in the open air. I say, that the motion of a SpermWhale’s flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a musk-scentedlady rustles her dress in a warm parlor. What then shall I liken theSperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude? Must it not beto that famous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh,which was led out of an Indian town to do honor to Alexander the Great?CHAPTER 93. The Castaway.It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman, that a mostsignificant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod’s crew;an event most lamentable; and which ended in providing the sometimesmadly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanyingprophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own.Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats.Some few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it isto work the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale. As a generalthing, these ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprisingthe boats’ crews. But if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy,or timorous wight in the ship, that wight is certain to be made aship-keeper. It was so in the Pequod with the little negro Pippin bynick-name, Pip by abbreviation. Poor Pip! ye have heard of him before;ye must remember his tambourine on that dramatic midnight, sogloomy-jolly.In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony anda white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar colour, drivenin one eccentric span. But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dulland torpid in his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was atbottom very bright, with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightnesspeculiar to his tribe; a tribe, which ever enjoy all holidays andfestivities with finer, freer relish than any other race. For blacks,the year’s calendar should show naught but three hundred and sixty-fiveFourth of Julys and New Year’s Days. Nor smile so, while I write thatthis little black was brilliant, for even blackness has its brilliancy;behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king’s cabinets. But Pip lovedlife, and all life’s peaceable securities; so that the panic-strikingbusiness in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, hadmost sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be seen,what was thus temporarily subdued in him, in the end was destined to beluridly illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed himoff to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native TollandCounty in Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler’s frolic onthe green; and at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turnedthe round horizon into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in theclear air of day, suspended against a blue-veined neck, thepure-watered diamond drop will healthful glow; yet, when the cunningjeweller would show you the diamond in its most impressive lustre, helays it against a gloomy ground, and then lights it up, not by the sun,but by some unnatural gases. Then come out those fiery effulgences,infernally superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinestsymbol of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen fromthe King of Hell. But let us to the story.It came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb’s after-oarsmanchanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed;and, temporarily, Pip was put into his place.The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; andtherefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observinghim, took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousnessto the utmost, for he might often find it needful.Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the whale; and asthe fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap, whichhappened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip’s seat. Theinvoluntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle inhand, out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whaleline coming against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so asto become entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water. Thatinstant the stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftlystraightened; and presto! poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks ofthe boat, remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had takenseveral turns around his chest and neck.Tashtego stood in the bows. He was full of the fire of the hunt. Hehated Pip for a poltroon. Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath, hesuspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb,exclaimed interrogatively, “Cut?” Meantime Pip’s blue, choked faceplainly looked, Do, for God’s sake! All passed in a flash. In less thanhalf a minute, this entire thing happened.“Damn him, cut!” roared Stubb; and so the whale was lost and Pip wassaved.So soon as he recovered himself, the poor little negro was assailed byyells and execrations from the crew. Tranquilly permitting theseirregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a plain, business-like,but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially; and that done,unofficially gave him much wholesome advice. The substance was, Neverjump from a boat, Pip, except—but all the rest was indefinite, as thesoundest advice ever is. Now, in general, Stick to the boat, is yourtrue motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when Leap fromthe boat, is still better. Moreover, as if perceiving at last that ifhe should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would beleaving him too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenlydropped all advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, “Stick tothe boat, Pip, or by the Lord, I won’t pick you up if you jump; mindthat. We can’t afford to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale wouldsell for thirty times what you would, Pip, in Alabama. Bear that inmind, and don’t jump any more.” Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted,that though man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal,which propensity too often interferes with his benevolence.But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. It wasunder very similar circumstances to the first performance; but thistime he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale startedto run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller’strunk. Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word. It was a beautiful,bounteous, blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatlystretching away, all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater’s skinhammered out to the extremest. Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip’sebon head showed like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was lifted whenhe fell so rapidly astern. Stubb’s inexorable back was turned upon him;and the whale was winged. In three minutes, a whole mile of shorelessocean was between Pip and Stubb. Out from the centre of the sea, poorPip turned his crisp, curling, black head to the sun, another lonelycastaway, though the loftiest and the brightest.Now, in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to thepractised swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But the awfullonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in themiddle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark,how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea—mark how closelythey hug their ship and only coast along her sides.But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate? No;he did not mean to, at least. Because there were two boats in his wake,and he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pipvery quickly, and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerationstowards oarsmen jeopardized through their own timidity, is not alwaysmanifested by the hunters in all similar instances; and such instancesnot unfrequently occur; almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, socalled, is marked with the same ruthless detestation peculiar tomilitary navies and armies.But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenlyspying whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; andStubb’s boat was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intentupon his fish, that Pip’s ringed horizon began to expand around himmiserably. By the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him;but from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot; such,at least, they said he was. The sea had jeeringly kept his finite bodyup, but drowned the infinite of his soul. Not drowned entirely, though.Rather carried down alive to wondrous depths, where strange shapes ofthe unwarped primal world glided to and fro before his passive eyes;and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded heaps; and among thejoyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the multitudinous,God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of watersheaved the colossal orbs. He saw God’s foot upon the treadle of theloom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad. Soman’s insanity is heaven’s sense; and wandering from all mortal reason,man comes at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, isabsurd and frantic; and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised,indifferent as his God.For the rest, blame not Stubb too hardly. The thing is common in thatfishery; and in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen whatlike abandonment befell myself.CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of the Hand.That whale of Stubb’s, so dearly purchased, was duly brought to thePequod’s side, where all those cutting and hoisting operationspreviously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to the baling ofthe Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.While some were occupied with this latter duty, others were employed indragging away the larger tubs, so soon as filled with the sperm; andwhen the proper time arrived, this same sperm was carefully manipulatedere going to the try-works, of which anon.It had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, withseveral others, I sat down before a large Constantine’s bath of it, Ifound it strangely concreted into lumps, here and there rolling aboutin the liquid part. It was our business to squeeze these lumps backinto fluid. A sweet and unctuous duty! No wonder that in old times thissperm was such a favourite cosmetic. Such a clearer! such a sweetener!such a softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in itfor only a few minutes, my fingers felt like eels, and began, as itwere, to serpentine and spiralise.As I sat there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitterexertion at the windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship underindolent sail, and gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my handsamong those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almostwithin the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and discharged alltheir opulence, like fully ripe grapes their wine; as I snuffed up thatuncontaminated aroma,—literally and truly, like the smell of springviolets; I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a muskymeadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in that inexpressiblesperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost began to creditthe old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue inallaying the heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinelyfree from all ill-will, or petulance, or malice, of any sortwhatsoever.Squeeze! squeeze! squeeze! all the morning long; I squeezed that spermtill I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till astrange sort of insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittinglysqueezing my co-laborers’ hands in it, mistaking their hands for thegentle globules. Such an abounding, affectionate, friendly, lovingfeeling did this avocation beget; that at last I was continuallysqueezing their hands, and looking up into their eyes sentimentally; asmuch as to say,—Oh! my dear fellow beings, why should we longer cherishany social acerbities, or know the slightest ill-humor or envy! Come;let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all squeeze ourselves intoeach other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk andsperm of kindness.Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever! For now, sinceby many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in allcases man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit ofattainable felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or thefancy; but in the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, thefireside, the country; now that I have perceived all this, I am readyto squeeze case eternally. In thoughts of the visions of the night, Isaw long rows of angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar ofspermaceti.Now, while discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other thingsakin to it, in the business of preparing the sperm whale for thetry-works.First comes white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the taperingpart of the fish, and also from the thicker portions of his flukes. Itis tough with congealed tendons—a wad of muscle—but still contains someoil. After being severed from the whale, the white-horse is first cutinto portable oblongs ere going to the mincer. They look much likeblocks of Berkshire marble.Plum-pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of thewhale’s flesh, here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, andoften participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness. It isa most refreshing, convivial, beautiful object to behold. As its nameimports, it is of an exceedingly rich, mottled tint, with a bestreakedsnowy and golden ground, dotted with spots of the deepest crimson andpurple. It is plums of rubies, in pictures of citron. Spite of reason,it is hard to keep yourself from eating it. I confess, that once Istole behind the foremast to try it. It tasted something as I shouldconceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might havetasted, supposing him to have been killed the first day after thevenison season, and that particular venison season contemporary with anunusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up inthe course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzlingadequately to describe. It is called slobgollion; an appellationoriginal with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.It is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in thetubs of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting. Ihold it to be the wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case,coalescing.Gurry, so called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, butsometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. It designates thedark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of theGreenland or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of thoseinferior souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan.Nippers. Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale’svocabulary. But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman’snipper is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the taperingpart of Leviathan’s tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for therest, is about the size of the iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved alongthe oily deck, it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by namelessblandishments, as of magic, allures along with it all impurities.But to learn all about these recondite matters, your best way is atonce to descend into the blubber-room, and have a long talk with itsinmates. This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle forthe blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted from the whale. When theproper time arrives for cutting up its contents, this apartment is ascene of terror to all tyros, especially by night. On one side, lit bya dull lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. Theygenerally go in pairs,—a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. Thewhaling-pike is similar to a frigate’s boarding-weapon of the samename. The gaff is something like a boat-hook. With his gaff, thegaffman hooks on to a sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it fromslipping, as the ship pitches and lurches about. Meanwhile, thespade-man stands on the sheet itself, perpendicularly chopping it intothe portable horse-pieces. This spade is sharp as hone can make it; thespademan’s feet are shoeless; the thing he stands on will sometimesirresistibly slide away from him, like a sledge. If he cuts off one ofhis own toes, or one of his assistants’, would you be very muchastonished? Toes are scarce among veteran blubber-room men.CHAPTER 95. The Cassock.Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a certain juncture of thispost-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled forward nigh thewindlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with no smallcuriosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have seenthere, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers. Not the wondrouscistern in the whale’s huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lowerjaw; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would sosurprise you, as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone,—longer thana Kentuckian is tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, andjet-black as Yojo, the ebony idol of Queequeg. And an idol, indeed, itis; or, rather, in old times, its likeness was. Such an idol as thatfound in the secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea; and forworshipping which, King Asa, her son, did depose her, and destroyed theidol, and burnt it for an abomination at the brook Kedron, as darklyset forth in the 15th chapter of the First Book of Kings.Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, andassisted by two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the marinerscall it, and with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were agrenadier carrying a dead comrade from the field. Extending it upon theforecastle deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt,as an African hunter the pelt of a boa. This done he turns the peltinside out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so asalmost to double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, inthe rigging, to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing somethree feet of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting twoslits for arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himselfbodily into it. The mincer now stands before you invested in the fullcanonicals of his calling. Immemorial to all his order, thisinvestiture alone will adequately protect him, while employed in thepeculiar functions of his office.That office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for thepots; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse,planted endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneathit, into which the minced pieces drop, fast as the sheets from a raptorator’s desk. Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit;intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what alad for a Pope were this mincer!**Bible leaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the matesto the mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into asthin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business ofboiling out the oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerablyincreased, besides perhaps improving it in quality.CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works.Besides her hoisted boats, an American whaler is outwardlydistinguished by her try-works. She presents the curious anomaly of themost solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting thecompleted ship. It is as if from the open field a brick-kiln weretransported to her planks.The try-works are planted between the foremast and mainmast, the mostroomy part of the deck. The timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength,fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick andmortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height. Thefoundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmlysecured to the surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on allsides, and screwing it down to the timbers. On the flanks it is casedwith wood, and at top completely covered by a large, sloping, battenedhatchway. Removing this hatch we expose the great try-pots, two innumber, and each of several barrels’ capacity. When not in use, theyare kept remarkably clean. Sometimes they are polished with soapstoneand sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls. During thenight-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and coilthemselves away there for a nap. While employed in polishing them—oneman in each pot, side by side—many confidential communications arecarried on, over the iron lips. It is a place also for profoundmathematical meditation. It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod,with the soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was firstindirectly struck by the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodiesgliding along the cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend fromany point in precisely the same time.Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the baremasonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths ofthe furnaces, directly underneath the pots. These mouths are fittedwith heavy doors of iron. The intense heat of the fire is preventedfrom communicating itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoirextending under the entire inclosed surface of the works. By a tunnelinserted at the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water asfast as it evaporates. There are no external chimneys; they open directfrom the rear wall. And here let us go back for a moment.It was about nine o’clock at night that the Pequod’s try-works werefirst started on this present voyage. It belonged to Stubb to overseethe business.“All ready there? Off hatch, then, and start her. You cook, fire theworks.” This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrustinghis shavings into the furnace throughout the passage. Here be it saidthat in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fedfor a time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means ofquick ignition to the staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out,the crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, stillcontains considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feedthe flames. Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consumingmisanthrope, once ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns byhis own body. Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke ishorrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but youmust live in it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odorabout it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. It smellslike the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for thepit.By midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from thecarcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild oceandarkness was intense. But that darkness was licked up by the fierceflames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, andilluminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greekfire. The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned tosome vengeful deed. So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of thebold Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from their midnight harbors, with broadsheets of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, andfolded them in conflagrations.The hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a widehearth in front of them. Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes ofthe pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship’s stokers. With hugepronged poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scaldingpots, or stirred up the fires beneath, till the snaky flames darted,curling, out of the doors to catch them by the feet. The smoke rolledaway in sullen heaps. To every pitch of the ship there was a pitch ofthe boiling oil, which seemed all eagerness to leap into their faces.Opposite the mouth of the works, on the further side of the wide woodenhearth, was the windlass. This served for a sea-sofa. Here lounged thewatch, when not otherwise employed, looking into the red heat of thefire, till their eyes felt scorched in their heads. Their tawnyfeatures, now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards,and the contrasting barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these werestrangely revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works. As theynarrated to each other their unholy adventures, their tales of terrortold in words of mirth; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwardsout of them, like the flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in theirfront, the harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge prongedforks and dippers; as the wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and theship groaned and dived, and yet steadfastly shot her red hell furtherand further into the blackness of the sea and the night, and scornfullychamped the white bone in her mouth, and viciously spat round her onall sides; then the rushing Pequod, freighted with savages, and ladenwith fire, and burning a corpse, and plunging into that blackness ofdarkness, seemed the material counterpart of her monomaniac commander’ssoul.So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm, and for long hours silentlyguided the way of this fire-ship on the sea. Wrapped, for thatinterval, in darkness myself, I but the better saw the redness, themadness, the ghastliness of others. The continual sight of the fiendshapes before me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these atlast begat kindred visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield tothat unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at amidnight helm.But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable)thing occurred to me. Starting from a brief standing sleep, I washorribly conscious of something fatally wrong. The jaw-bone tillersmote my side, which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum ofsails, just beginning to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes wereopen; I was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids andmechanically stretching them still further apart. But, spite of allthis, I could see no compass before me to steer by; though it seemedbut a minute since I had been watching the card, by the steady binnaclelamp illuminating it. Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now andthen made ghastly by flashes of redness. Uppermost was the impression,that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound toany haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern. A stark, bewilderedfeeling, as of death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped thetiller, but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, insome enchanted way, inverted. My God! what is the matter with me?thought I. Lo! in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and wasfronting the ship’s stern, with my back to her prow and the compass. Inan instant I faced back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flyingup into the wind, and very probably capsizing her. How glad and howgrateful the relief from this unnatural hallucination of the night, andthe fatal contingency of being brought by the lee!Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thyhand on the helm! Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the firsthint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when itsredness makes all things look ghastly. To-morrow, in the natural sun,the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forkingflames, the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; theglorious, golden, glad sun, the only true lamp—all others but liars!Nevertheless the sun hides not Virginia’s Dismal Swamp, nor Rome’saccursed Campagna, nor wide Sahara, nor all the millions of miles ofdeserts and of griefs beneath the moon. The sun hides not the ocean,which is the dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of thisearth. So, therefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrowin him, that mortal man cannot be true—not true, or undeveloped. Withbooks the same. The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows, and thetruest of all books is Solomon’s, and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammeredsteel of woe. “All is vanity.” ALL. This wilful world hath not got holdof unchristian Solomon’s wisdom yet. But he who dodges hospitals andjails, and walks fast crossing graveyards, and would rather talk ofoperas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devilsall of sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelaisas passing wise, and therefore jolly;—not that man is fitted to sitdown on tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomablywondrous Solomon.But even Solomon, he says, “the man that wandereth out of the way ofunderstanding shall remain” (i.e., even while living) “in thecongregation of the dead.” Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest itinvert thee, deaden thee; as for the time it did me. There is a wisdomthat is woe; but there is a woe that is madness. And there is aCatskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackestgorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunnyspaces. And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge isin the mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagleis still higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar.CHAPTER 97. The Lamp.Had you descended from the Pequod’s try-works to the Pequod’sforecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping, for one singlemoment you would have almost thought you were standing in someilluminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors. There they layin their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; ascore of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk ofqueens. To dress in the dark, and eat in the dark, and stumble indarkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot. But the whaleman, as heseeks the food of light, so he lives in light. He makes his berth anAladdin’s lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest nightthe ship’s black hull still houses an illumination.See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful oflamps—often but old bottles and vials, though—to the copper cooler atthe try-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale at a vat. Heburns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore,unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astralcontrivances ashore. It is sweet as early grass butter in April. Hegoes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness andgenuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his ownsupper of game.CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.Already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar offdescried from the mast-head; how he is chased over the watery moors,and slaughtered in the valleys of the deep; how he is then towedalongside and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled theheadsman of old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed) hisgreat padded surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, indue time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, andAbednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed through thefire;—but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this part ofthe description by rehearsing—singing, if I may—the romantic proceedingof decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into thehold, where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities,sliding along beneath the surface as before; but, alas! never more torise and blow.While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into thesix-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rollingthis way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewedround and headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scootacross the slippery deck, like so many land slides, till at lastman-handled and stayed in their course; and all round the hoops, rap,rap, go as many hammers as can play upon them, for now, ex officio,every sailor is a cooper.At length, when the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then thegreat hatchways are unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open,and down go the casks to their final rest in the sea. This done, thehatches are replaced, and hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.In the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkableincidents in all the business of whaling. One day the planks streamwith freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred quarter-deck enormousmasses of the whale’s head are profanely piled; great rusty casks lieabout, as in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has besootedall the bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness; theentire ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the dinis deafening.But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears in thisself-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and try-works,you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel, with amost scrupulously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm oilpossesses a singularly cleansing virtue. This is the reason why thedecks never look so white as just after what they call an affair ofoil. Besides, from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, apotent lye is readily made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the backof the whale remains clinging to the side, that lye quicklyexterminates it. Hands go diligently along the bulwarks, and withbuckets of water and rags restore them to their full tidiness. The sootis brushed from the lower rigging. All the numerous implements whichhave been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put away. Thegreat hatch is scrubbed and placed upon the try-works, completelyhiding the pots; every cask is out of sight; all tackles are coiled inunseen nooks; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry ofalmost the entire ship’s company, the whole of this conscientious dutyis at last concluded, then the crew themselves proceed to their ownablutions; shift themselves from top to toe; and finally issue to theimmaculate deck, fresh and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped fromout the daintiest Holland.Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, andhumorously discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics;propose to mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top; object notto taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint tosuch musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little shortof audacity. They know not the thing you distantly allude to. Away, andbring us napkins!But mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intenton spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again soilthe old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spotsomewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severestuninterrupted labors, which know no night; continuing straight throughfor ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled theirwrists with all day rowing on the Line,—they only step to the deck tocarry vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash,yea, and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by thecombined fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try-works;when, on the heel of all this, they have finally bestirred themselvesto cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is thetime the poor fellows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks,are startled by the cry of “There she blows!” and away they fly tofight another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again. Oh! myfriends, but this is man-killing! Yet this is life. For hardly have wemortals by long toilings extracted from this world’s vast bulk itssmall but valuable sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansedourselves from its defilements, and learned to live here in cleantabernacles of the soul; hardly is this done, when—There sheblows!—the ghost is spouted up, and away we sail to fight some otherworld, and go through young life’s old routine again.Oh! the metempsychosis! Oh! Pythagoras, that in bright Greece, twothousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I sailed withthee along the Peruvian coast last voyage—and, foolish as I am, taughtthee, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon.Ere now it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter-deck,taking regular turns at either limit, the binnacle and mainmast; but inthe multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not beenadded how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in his mood,he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there strangelyeyeing the particular object before him. When he halted before thebinnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in thecompass, that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity ofhis purpose; and when resuming his walk he again paused before themainmast, then, as the same riveted glance fastened upon the rivetedgold coin there, he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness, onlydashed with a certain wild longing, if not hopefulness.But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed to be newlyattracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it, asthough now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself insome monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them. And somecertain significance lurks in all things, else all things are littleworth, and the round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sellby the cartload, as they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morassin the Milky Way.Now this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out ofthe heart of gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands,the head-waters of many a Pactolus flows. And though now nailed amidstall the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes,yet, untouchable and immaculate to any foulness, it still preserved itsQuito glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hourpassed by ruthless hands, and through the livelong nights shrouded withthick darkness which might cover any pilfering approach, neverthelessevery sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For itwas set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and howeverwanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it asthe white whale’s talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the wearywatch by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether hewould ever live to spend it.Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sunand tropic token-pieces. Here palms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun’sdisks and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich banners waving,are in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold seemsalmost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, bypassing through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.It so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthyexample of these things. On its round border it bore the letters,REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a countryplanted in the middle of the world, and beneath the great equator, andnamed after it; and it had been cast midway up the Andes, in theunwaning clime that knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw thelikeness of three Andes’ summits; from one a flame; a tower on another;on the third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment ofthe partitioned zodiac, the signs all marked with their usualcabalistics, and the keystone sun entering the equinoctial point atLibra.Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was nowpausing.“There’s something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, andall other grand and lofty things; look here,—three peaks as proud asLucifer. The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; thecourageous, the undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; allare Ahab; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe,which, like a magician’s glass, to each and every man in turn butmirrors back his own mysterious self. Great pains, small gains forthose who ask the world to solve them; it cannot solve itself. Methinksnow this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but see! aye, he enters thesign of storms, the equinox! and but six months before he wheeled outof a former equinox at Aries! From storm to storm! So be it, then. Bornin throes, ’tis fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs! Sobe it, then! Here’s stout stuff for woe to work on. So be it, then.”“No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil’s claws musthave left their mouldings there since yesterday,” murmured Starbuck tohimself, leaning against the bulwarks. “The old man seems to readBelshazzar’s awful writing. I have never marked the coin inspectingly.He goes below; let me read. A dark valley between three mighty,heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faintearthly symbol. So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and overall our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and ahope. If we bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil;but if we lift them, the bright sun meets our glance half way, tocheer. Yet, oh, the great sun is no fixture; and if, at midnight, wewould fain snatch some sweet solace from him, we gaze for him in vain!This coin speaks wisely, mildly, truly, but still sadly to me. I willquit it, lest Truth shake me falsely.”“There now’s the old Mogul,” soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, “he’sbeen twigging it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both withfaces which I should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long.And all from looking at a piece of gold, which did I have it now onNegro Hill or in Corlaer’s Hook, I’d not look at it very long erespending it. Humph! in my poor, insignificant opinion, I regard this asqueer. I have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings; your doubloonsof old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, your doubloons of Chili, yourdoubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of Popayan; with plenty of goldmoidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, and quarter joes. Whatthen should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killingwonderful? By Golconda! let me read it once. Halloa! here’s signs andwonders truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls thezodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I’ll get the almanac andas I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll’s arithmetic, I’ll trymy hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with theMassachusetts calendar. Here’s the book. Let’s see now. Signs andwonders; and the sun, he’s always among ’em. Hem, hem, hem; here theyare—here they go—all alive:—Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull andJimimi! here’s Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he wheelsamong ’em. Aye, here on the coin he’s just crossing the thresholdbetween two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring. Book! you lie there;the fact is, you books must know your places. You’ll do to give us thebare words and facts, but we come in to supply the thoughts. That’s mysmall experience, so far as the Massachusetts calendar, and Bowditch’snavigator, and Daboll’s arithmetic go. Signs and wonders, eh? Pity ifthere is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in wonders!There’s a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist—hark! By Jove, I have it!Look you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one roundchapter; and now I’ll read it off, straight out of the book. Come,Almanack! To begin: there’s Aries, or the Ram—lecherous dog, he begetsus; then, Taurus, or the Bull—he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini,or the Twins—that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo!comes Cancer the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue,Leo, a roaring Lion, lies in the path—he gives a few fierce bites andsurly dabs with his paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin! that’sour first love; we marry and think to be happy for aye, when pop comesLibra, or the Scales—happiness weighed and found wanting; and while weare very sad about that, Lord! how we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or theScorpion, stings us in the rear; we are curing the wound, when whangcome the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the Archer, is amusinghimself. As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside! here’s thebattering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing,and headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, poursout his whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or theFishes, we sleep. There’s a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and thesun goes through it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive andhearty. Jollily he, aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; andso, alow here, does jolly Stubb. Oh, jolly’s the word for aye! Adieu,Doubloon! But stop; here comes little King-Post; dodge round thetry-works, now, and let’s hear what he’ll have to say. There; he’sbefore it; he’ll out with something presently. So, so; he’s beginning.”“I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, and whoever raisesa certain whale, this round thing belongs to him. So, what’s all thisstaring been about? It is worth sixteen dollars, that’s true; and attwo cents the cigar, that’s nine hundred and sixty cigars. I won’tsmoke dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and here’s ninehundred and sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy ’em out.”“Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has afoolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort ofwiseish look to it. But, avast; here comes our old Manxman—the oldhearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea.He luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the otherside of the mast; why, there’s a horse-shoe nailed on that side; andnow he’s back again; what does that mean? Hark! he’s muttering—voicelike an old worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!”“If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, whenthe sun stands in some one of these signs. I’ve studied signs, and knowtheir marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witchin Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will the sun then be? The horse-shoesign; for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what’s thehorse-shoe sign? The lion is the horse-shoe sign—the roaring anddevouring lion. Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee.”“There’s another rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men inone kind of world, you see. Dodge again! here comes Queequeg—alltattooing—looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself. What says theCannibal? As I live he’s comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone;thinks the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, Isuppose, as the old women talk Surgeon’s Astronomy in the back country.And by Jove, he’s found something there in the vicinity of his thigh—Iguess it’s Sagittarius, or the Archer. No: he don’t know what to makeof the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king’strowsers. But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tailcoiled out of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual.What does he say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to thesign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coin—fire worshipper,depend upon it. Ho! more and more. This way comes Pip—poor boy! wouldhe had died, or I; he’s half horrible to me. He too has been watchingall of these interpreters—myself included—and look now, he comes toread, with that unearthly idiot face. Stand away again and hear him.Hark!”“I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.”“Upon my soul, he’s been studying Murray’s Grammar! Improving his mind,poor fellow! But what’s that he says now—hist!”“I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.”“Why, he’s getting it by heart—hist! again.”“I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.”“Well, that’s funny.”“And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I’m acrow, especially when I stand a’top of this pine tree here. Caw! caw!caw! caw! caw! caw! Ain’t I a crow? And where’s the scare-crow? Therehe stands; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two morepoked into the sleeves of an old jacket.”“Wonder if he means me?—complimentary!—poor lad!—I could go hangmyself. Any way, for the present, I’ll quit Pip’s vicinity. I can standthe rest, for they have plain wits; but he’s too crazy-witty for mysanity. So, so, I leave him muttering.”“Here’s the ship’s navel, this doubloon here, and they are all on fireto unscrew it. But, unscrew your navel, and what’s the consequence?Then again, if it stays here, that is ugly, too, for when aught’snailed to the mast it’s a sign that things grow desperate. Ha, ha! oldAhab! the White Whale; he’ll nail ye! This is a pine tree. My father,in old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and found a silverring grown over in it; some old darkey’s wedding ring. How did it getthere? And so they’ll say in the resurrection, when they come to fishup this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oystersfor the shaggy bark. Oh, the gold! the precious, precious, gold! thegreen miser’ll hoard ye soon! Hish! hish! God goes ’mong the worldsblackberrying. Cook! ho, cook! and cook us! Jenny! hey, hey, hey, hey,hey, Jenny, Jenny! and get your hoe-cake done!”CHAPTER 100. Leg and Arm.The Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London.“Ship, ahoy! Hast seen the White Whale?”So cried Ahab, once more hailing a ship showing English colours,bearing down under the stern. Trumpet to mouth, the old man wasstanding in his hoisted quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed tothe stranger captain, who was carelessly reclining in his own boat’sbow. He was a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, ofsixty or thereabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that hung roundhim in festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of this jacketstreamed behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar’s surcoat.“Hast seen the White Whale?”“See you this?” and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it,he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a woodenhead like a mallet.“Man my boat!” cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars nearhim—“Stand by to lower!”In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and hiscrew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of thestranger. But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In theexcitement of the moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of hisleg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but hisown, and then it was always by an ingenious and very handy mechanicalcontrivance peculiar to the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged andshipped in any other vessel at a moment’s warning. Now, it is no veryeasy matter for anybody—except those who are almost hourly used to it,like whalemen—to clamber up a ship’s side from a boat on the open sea;for the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks,and then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson. So,deprived of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogetherunsupplied with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectlyreduced to a clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertainchangeful height he could hardly hope to attain.It has before been hinted, perhaps, that every little untowardcircumstance that befell him, and which indirectly sprang from hisluckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab. Andin the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of thetwo officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by theperpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him apair of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seemto bethink them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple touse their sea bannisters. But this awkwardness only lasted a minute,because the strange captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood,cried out, “I see, I see!—avast heaving there! Jump, boys, and swingover the cutting-tackle.”As good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or twoprevious, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massivecurved blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end.This was quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all,slid his solitary thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sittingin the fluke of an anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and thengiving the word, held himself fast, and at the same time also helped tohoist his own weight, by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the runningparts of the tackle. Soon he was carefully swung inside the highbulwarks, and gently landed upon the capstan head. With his ivory armfrankly thrust forth in welcome, the other captain advanced, and Ahab,putting out his ivory leg, and crossing the ivory arm (like twosword-fish blades) cried out in his walrus way, “Aye, aye, hearty! letus shake bones together!—an arm and a leg!—an arm that never canshrink, d’ye see; and a leg that never can run. Where did’st thou seethe White Whale?—how long ago?”“The White Whale,” said the Englishman, pointing his ivory arm towardsthe East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been atelescope; “there I saw him, on the Line, last season.”“And he took that arm off, did he?” asked Ahab, now sliding down fromthe capstan, and resting on the Englishman’s shoulder, as he did so.“Aye, he was the cause of it, at least; and that leg, too?”“Spin me the yarn,” said Ahab; “how was it?”“It was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line,”began the Englishman. “I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boatfastened to one of them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that wentmilling and milling round so, that my boat’s crew could only trim dish,by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale. Presently up breachesfrom the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-whitehead and hump, all crows’ feet and wrinkles.”“It was he, it was he!” cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his suspendedbreath.“And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.”“Aye, aye—they were mine—my irons,” cried Ahab, exultingly—“but on!”“Give me a chance, then,” said the Englishman, good-humoredly. “Well,this old great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs allafoam into the pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line!“Aye, I see!—wanted to part it; free the fast-fish—an old trick—I knowhim.”“How it was exactly,” continued the one-armed commander, “I do notknow; but in biting the line, it got foul of his teeth, caught theresomehow; but we didn’t know it then; so that when we afterwards pulledon the line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of the otherwhale’s; that went off to windward, all fluking. Seeing how mattersstood, and what a noble great whale it was—the noblest and biggest Iever saw, sir, in my life—I resolved to capture him, spite of theboiling rage he seemed to be in. And thinking the hap-hazard line wouldget loose, or the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have adevil of a boat’s crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, Isay, I jumped into my first mate’s boat—Mr. Mounttop’s here (by theway, Captain—Mounttop; Mounttop—the captain);—as I was saying, I jumpedinto Mounttop’s boat, which, d’ye see, was gunwale and gunwale withmine, then; and snatching the first harpoon, let this oldgreat-grandfather have it. But, Lord, look you, sir—hearts and soulsalive, man—the next instant, in a jiff, I was blind as a bat—both eyesout—all befogged and bedeadened with black foam—the whale’s taillooming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air, like a marblesteeple. No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at midday,with a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say, afterthe second iron, to toss it overboard—down comes the tail like a Limatower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and,flukes first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it wasall chips. We all struck out. To escape his terrible flailings, Iseized hold of my harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clungto that like a sucking fish. But a combing sea dashed me off, and atthe same instant, the fish, taking one good dart forwards, went downlike a flash; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along nearme caught me here” (clapping his hand just below his shoulder); “yes,caught me just here, I say, and bore me down to Hell’s flames, I wasthinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the good God, the barbript its way along the flesh—clear along the whole length of myarm—came out nigh my wrist, and up I floated;—and that gentleman therewill tell you the rest (by the way, captain—Dr. Bunger, ship’s surgeon:Bunger, my lad,—the captain). Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of theyarn.”The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been allthe time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to denotehis gentlemanly rank on board. His face was an exceedingly round butsober one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, andpatched trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention betweena marlingspike he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other,occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the twocrippled captains. But, at his superior’s introduction of him to Ahab,he politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain’s bidding.“It was a shocking bad wound,” began the whale-surgeon; “and, taking myadvice, Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy—”“Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship,” interrupted the one-armedcaptain, addressing Ahab; “go on, boy.”“Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazinghot weather there on the Line. But it was no use—I did all I could; satup with him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet—”“Oh, very severe!” chimed in the patient himself; then suddenlyaltering his voice, “Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, tillhe couldn’t see to put on the bandages; and sending me to bed, halfseas over, about three o’clock in the morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat upwith me indeed, and was very severe in my diet. Oh! a great watcher,and very dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laughout! why don’t ye? You know you’re a precious jolly rascal.) But, heaveahead, boy, I’d rather be killed by you than kept alive by any otherman.”“My captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir”—said theimperturbable godly-looking Bunger, slightly bowing to Ahab—“is apt tobe facetious at times; he spins us many clever things of that sort. ButI may as well say—en passant, as the French remark—that I myself—thatis to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend clergy—am a strict totalabstinence man; I never drink—”“Water!” cried the captain; “he never drinks it; it’s a sort of fits tohim; fresh water throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on—go on withthe arm story.”“Yes, I may as well,” said the surgeon, coolly. “I was about observing,sir, before Captain Boomer’s facetious interruption, that spite of mybest and severest endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse;the truth was, sir, it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw;more than two feet and several inches long. I measured it with the leadline. In short, it grew black; I knew what was threatened, and off itcame. But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing isagainst all rule”—pointing at it with the marlingspike—“that is thecaptain’s work, not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he hadthat club-hammer there put to the end, to knock some one’s brains outwith, I suppose, as he tried mine once. He flies into diabolicalpassions sometimes. Do ye see this dent, sir”—removing his hat, andbrushing aside his hair, and exposing a bowl-like cavity in his skull,but which bore not the slightest scarry trace, or any token of everhaving been a wound—“Well, the captain there will tell you how thatcame here; he knows.”“No, I don’t,” said the captain, “but his mother did; he was born withit. Oh, you solemn rogue, you—you Bunger! was there ever such anotherBunger in the watery world? Bunger, when you die, you ought to die inpickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future ages, you rascal.”“What became of the White Whale?” now cried Ahab, who thus far had beenimpatiently listening to this by-play between the two Englishmen.“Oh!” cried the one-armed captain, “oh, yes! Well; after he sounded, wedidn’t see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted, Ididn’t then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick,till some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard aboutMoby Dick—as some call him—and then I knew it was he.”“Did’st thou cross his wake again?”“Twice.”“But could not fasten?”“Didn’t want to try to: ain’t one limb enough? What should I do withoutthis other arm? And I’m thinking Moby Dick doesn’t bite so much as heswallows.”“Well, then,” interrupted Bunger, “give him your left arm for bait toget the right. Do you know, gentlemen”—very gravely and mathematicallybowing to each Captain in succession—“Do you know, gentlemen, that thedigestive organs of the whale are so inscrutably constructed by DivineProvidence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digesteven a man’s arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for theWhite Whale’s malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means toswallow a single limb; he only thinks to terrify by feints. Butsometimes he is like the old juggling fellow, formerly a patient ofmine in Ceylon, that making believe swallow jack-knives, once upon atime let one drop into him in good earnest, and there it stayed for atwelvemonth or more; when I gave him an emetic, and he heaved it up insmall tacks, d’ye see. No possible way for him to digest thatjack-knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily system.Yes, Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a mindto pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burialto the other, why in that case the arm is yours; only let the whalehave another chance at you shortly, that’s all.”“No, thank ye, Bunger,” said the English Captain, “he’s welcome to thearm he has, since I can’t help it, and didn’t know him then; but not toanother one. No more White Whales for me; I’ve lowered for him once,and that has satisfied me. There would be great glory in killing him, Iknow that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, harkye, he’s best let alone; don’t you think so, Captain?”—glancing at theivory leg.“He is. But he will still be hunted, for all that. What is best letalone, that accursed thing is not always what least allures. He’s all amagnet! How long since thou saw’st him last? Which way heading?”“Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend’s,” cried Bunger, stoopinglywalking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely snuffing; “this man’sblood—bring the thermometer!—it’s at the boiling point!—his pulse makesthese planks beat!—sir!”—taking a lancet from his pocket, and drawingnear to Ahab’s arm.“Avast!” roared Ahab, dashing him against the bulwarks—“Man the boat!Which way heading?”“Good God!” cried the English Captain, to whom the question was put.“What’s the matter? He was heading east, I think.—Is your Captaincrazy?” whispering Fedallah.But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks totake the boat’s steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackletowards him, commanded the ship’s sailors to stand by to lower.In a moment he was standing in the boat’s stern, and the Manilla menwere springing to their oars. In vain the English Captain hailed him.With back to the stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own,Ahab stood upright till alongside of the Pequod.CHAPTER 101. The Decanter.Ere the English ship fades from sight, be it set down here, that shehailed from London, and was named after the late Samuel Enderby,merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling house ofEnderby & Sons; a house which in my poor whaleman’s opinion, comes notfar behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in pointof real historical interest. How long, prior to the year of our Lord1775, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerousfish-documents do not make plain; but in that year (1775) it fitted outthe first English ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale;though for some score of years previous (ever since 1726) our valiantCoffins and Maceys of Nantucket and the Vineyard had in large fleetspursued that Leviathan, but only in the North and South Atlantic: notelsewhere. Be it distinctly recorded here, that the Nantucketers werethe first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great SpermWhale; and that for half a century they were the only people of thewhole globe who so harpooned him.In 1778, a fine ship, the Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose,and at the sole charge of the vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded CapeHorn, and was the first among the nations to lower a whale-boat of anysort in the great South Sea. The voyage was a skilful and lucky one;and returning to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm,the Amelia’s example was soon followed by other ships, English andAmerican, and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific werethrown open. But not content with this good deed, the indefatigablehouse again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons—how many, theirmother only knows—and under their immediate auspices, and partly, Ithink, at their expense, the British government was induced to send thesloop-of-war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the SouthSea. Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattlingvoyage of it, and did some service; how much does not appear. But thisis not all. In 1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale shipof their own, to go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan.That ship—well called the “Syren”—made a noble experimental cruise; andit was thus that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first becamegenerally known. The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by aCaptain Coffin, a Nantucketer.All honor to the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists tothe present day; though doubtless the original Samuel must long agohave slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world.The ship named after him was worthy of the honor, being a very fastsailer and a noble craft every way. I boarded her once at midnightsomewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in theforecastle. It was a fine gam we had, and they were all trumps—everysoul on board. A short life to them, and a jolly death. And that finegam I had—long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with hisivory heel—it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of thatship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I everlose sight of it. Flip? Did I say we had flip? Yes, and we flipped itat the rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it’ssqually off there by Patagonia), and all hands—visitors and all—werecalled to reef topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing eachother aloft in bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of ourjackets into the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in thehowling gale, a warning example to all drunken tars. However, the mastsdid not go overboard; and by and by we scrambled down, so sober, thatwe had to pass the flip again, though the savage salt spray burstingdown the forecastle scuttle, rather too much diluted and pickled it tomy taste.The beef was fine—tough, but with body in it. They said it wasbull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef; but I do not know, forcertain, how that was. They had dumplings too; small, but substantial,symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings. I fancied thatyou could feel them, and roll them about in you after they wereswallowed. If you stooped over too far forward, you risked theirpitching out of you like billiard-balls. The bread—but that couldn’t behelped; besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the breadcontained the only fresh fare they had. But the forecastle was not verylight, and it was very easy to step over into a dark corner when youate it. But all in all, taking her from truck to helm, considering thedimensions of the cook’s boilers, including his own live parchmentboilers; fore and aft, I say, the Samuel Enderby was a jolly ship; ofgood fare and plenty; fine flip and strong; crack fellows all, andcapital from boot heels to hat-band.But why was it, think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some otherEnglish whalers I know of—not all though—were such famous, hospitableships; that passed round the beef, and the bread, and the can, and thejoke; and were not soon weary of eating, and drinking, and laughing? Iwill tell you. The abounding good cheer of these English whalers ismatter for historical research. Nor have I been at all sparing ofhistorical whale research, when it has seemed needed.The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders,Zealanders, and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extantin the fishery; and what is yet more, their fat old fashions, touchingplenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the Englishmerchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler. Hence,in the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal andnatural, but incidental and particular; and, therefore, must have somespecial origin, which is here pointed out, and will be still furtherelucidated.During my researches in the Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon anancient Dutch volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I knewmust be about whalers. The title was, “Dan Coopman,” wherefore Iconcluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdamcooper in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I wasreinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one“Fitz Swackhammer.” But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man,professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Clausand St. Pott’s, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him abox of sperm candles for his trouble—this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon ashe spied the book, assured me that “Dan Coopman” did not mean “TheCooper,” but “The Merchant.” In short, this ancient and learned LowDutch book treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among othersubjects, contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery.And in this chapter it was, headed, “Smeer,” or “Fat,” that I found along detailed list of the outfits for the larders and cellars of 180sail of Dutch whalemen; from which list, as translated by Dr. Snodhead,I transcribe the following:400,000 lbs. of beef. 60,000 lbs. Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs. of stockfish. 550,000 lbs. of biscuit. 72,000 lbs. of soft bread. 2,800 firkinsof butter. 20,000 lbs. Texel & Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs. cheese(probably an inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels ofbeer.Most statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so inthe present case, however, where the reader is flooded with wholepipes, barrels, quarts, and gills of good gin and good cheer.At the time, I devoted three days to the studious digesting of all thisbeer, beef, and bread, during which many profound thoughts wereincidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental and Platonicapplication; and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables of myown, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed byevery Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergenwhale fishery. In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel andLeyden cheese consumed, seems amazing. I impute it, though, to theirnaturally unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by thenature of their vocation, and especially by their pursuing their gamein those frigid Polar Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimauxcountry where the convivial natives pledge each other in bumpers oftrain oil.The quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels. Now, as thosepolar fisheries could only be prosecuted in the short summer of thatclimate, so that the whole cruise of one of these Dutch whalemen,including the short voyage to and from the Spitzbergen sea, did notmuch exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men to each of theirfleet of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all; therefore, Isay, we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a twelve weeks’allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers of gin.Now, whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one mightfancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in aboat’s head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seemsomewhat improbable. Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too. Butthis was very far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well withthe constitution; upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer wouldbe apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in hisboat; and grievous loss might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.But no more; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers oftwo or three centuries ago were high livers; and that the Englishwhalers have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say they, whencruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of theworld, get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties thedecanter.CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides.Hitherto, in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chieflydwelt upon the marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detailupon some few interior structural features. But to a large and thoroughsweeping comprehension of him, it behooves me now to unbutton him stillfurther, and untagging the points of his hose, unbuckling his garters,and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermostbones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that is to say, in hisunconditional skeleton.But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in thefishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of thewhale? Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectureson the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up aspecimen rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land afull-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes aroast-pig? Surely not. A veritable witness have you hitherto been,Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone;the privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters,ridge-pole, sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work ofleviathan; and belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, andcheeseries in his bowels.I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very farbeneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessedwith an opportunity to dissect him in miniature. In a ship I belongedto, a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for hispoke or bag, to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for theheads of the lances. Think you I let that chance go, without using myboat-hatchet and jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all thecontents of that young cub?And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in theirgigantic, full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebtedto my late royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides.For being at Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Deyof Algiers, I was invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays withthe lord of Tranque, at his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-sideglen not very far distant from what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, hiscapital.Among many other fine qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being giftedwith a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu, had broughttogether in Pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of hispeople could invent; chiefly carved woods of wonderful devices,chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles, aromatic canoes; andall these distributed among whatever natural wonders, thewonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.Chief among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after anunusually long raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with hishead against a cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopingsseemed his verdant jet. When the vast body had at last been stripped ofits fathom-deep enfoldings, and the bones become dust dry in the sun,then the skeleton was carefully transported up the Pupella glen, wherea grand temple of lordly palms now sheltered it.The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebræ were carved withArsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priestskept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head againsent forth its vapory spout; while, suspended from a bough, theterrific lower jaw vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hungsword that so affrighted Damocles.It was a wondrous sight. The wood was green as mosses of the Icy Glen;the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; theindustrious earth beneath was as a weaver’s loom, with a gorgeouscarpet on it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp andwoof, and the living flowers the figures. All the trees, with all theirladen branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; themessage-carrying air; all these unceasingly were active. Through thelacings of the leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weavingthe unwearied verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!—pause!—oneword!—whither flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore allthese ceaseless toilings? Speak, weaver!—stay thy hand!—but one singleword with thee! Nay—the shuttle flies—the figures float from forth theloom; the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god,he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortalvoice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are deafened;and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speakthrough it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spokenwords that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same wordsare plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the openedcasements. Thereby have villainies been detected. Ah, mortal! then, beheedful; for so, in all this din of the great world’s loom, thysubtlest thinkings may be overheard afar.Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, thegreat, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging—a gigantic idler! Yet,as the ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed aroundhim, the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven overwith the vines; every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; buthimself a skeleton. Life folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grimgod wived with youthful Life, and begat him curly-headed glories.Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited this wondrous whale, and saw theskull an altar, and the artificial smoke ascending from where the realjet had issued, I marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as anobject of vertu. He laughed. But more I marvelled that the priestsshould swear that smoky jet of his was genuine. To and fro I pacedbefore this skeleton—brushed the vines aside—broke through the ribs—andwith a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid its manywinding, shaded colonnades and arbours. But soon my line was out; andfollowing it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered. I saw noliving thing within; naught was there but bones.Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within theskeleton. From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived metaking the altitude of the final rib, “How now!” they shouted; “Dar’stthou measure this our god! That’s for us.” “Aye, priests—well, how longdo ye make him, then?” But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them,concerning feet and inches; they cracked each other’s sconces withtheir yard-sticks—the great skull echoed—and seizing that lucky chance,I quickly concluded my own admeasurements.These admeasurements I now propose to set before you. But first, be itrecorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any fanciedmeasurement I please. Because there are skeleton authorities you canrefer to, to test my accuracy. There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tellme, in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, wherethey have some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales. Likewise,I have heard that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, theyhave what the proprietors call “the only perfect specimen of aGreenland or River Whale in the United States.” Moreover, at a place inYorkshire, England, Burton Constable by name, a certain Sir CliffordConstable has in his possession the skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but ofmoderate size, by no means of the full-grown magnitude of my friendKing Tranquo’s.In both cases, the stranded whales to which these two skeletonsbelonged, were originally claimed by their proprietors upon similargrounds. King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and SirClifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those parts. SirClifford’s whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a greatchest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bonycavities—spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan—and swing all day uponhis lower jaw. Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors andshutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch ofkeys at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peepat the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence to hear theecho in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalledview from his forehead.The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copiedverbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wildwanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preservingsuch valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wishedthe other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was thencomposing—at least, what untattooed parts might remain—I did nottrouble myself with the odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at allenter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale.CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale’s Skeleton.In the first place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plainstatement, touching the living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeletonwe are briefly to exhibit. Such a statement may prove useful here.According to a careful calculation I have made, and which I partly baseupon Captain Scoresby’s estimate, of seventy tons for the largest sizedGreenland whale of sixty feet in length; according to my carefulcalculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest magnitude, betweeneighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less than fortyfeet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at leastninety tons; so that, reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he wouldconsiderably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of onethousand one hundred inhabitants.Think you not then that brains, like yoked cattle, should be put tothis leviathan, to make him at all budge to any landsman’s imagination?Having already in various ways put before you his skull, spout-hole,jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts, I shall nowsimply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of hisunobstructed bones. But as the colossal skull embraces so very large aproportion of the entire extent of the skeleton; as it is by far themost complicated part; and as nothing is to be repeated concerning itin this chapter, you must not fail to carry it in your mind, or underyour arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not gain a complete notionof the general structure we are about to view.In length, the Sperm Whale’s skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-twofeet; so that when fully invested and extended in life, he must havebeen ninety feet long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about onefifth in length compared with the living body. Of this seventy-twofeet, his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fiftyfeet of plain back-bone. Attached to this back-bone, for something lessthan a third of its length, was the mighty circular basket of ribswhich once enclosed his vitals.To me this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine,extending far away from it in a straight line, not a little resembledthe hull of a great ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only sometwenty of her naked bow-ribs are inserted, and the keel is otherwise,for the time, but a long, disconnected timber.The ribs were ten on a side. The first, to begin from the neck, wasnearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were eachsuccessively longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or oneof the middle ribs, which measured eight feet and some inches. Fromthat part, the remaining ribs diminished, till the tenth and last onlyspanned five feet and some inches. In general thickness, they all borea seemly correspondence to their length. The middle ribs were the mostarched. In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to layfootpath bridges over small streams.In considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with thecircumstance, so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton ofthe whale is by no means the mould of his invested form. The largest ofthe Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of thefish which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, the greatest depth ofthe invested body of this particular whale must have been at leastsixteen feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little morethan eight feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notionof the living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where Inow saw but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round withtons of added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, forthe ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place ofthe weighty and majestic, but boneless flukes, an utter blank!How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to tryto comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over hisdead attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood. No. Only inthe heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of hisangry flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fullyinvested whale be truly and livingly found out.But the spine. For that, the best way we can consider it is, with acrane, to pile its bones high up on end. No speedy enterprise. But nowit’s done, it looks much like Pompey’s Pillar.There are forty and odd vertebræ in all, which in the skeleton are notlocked together. They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on aGothic spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry. The largest, amiddle one, is in width something less than three feet, and in depthmore than four. The smallest, where the spine tapers away into thetail, is only two inches in width, and looks something like a whitebilliard-ball. I was told that there were still smaller ones, but theyhad been lost by some little cannibal urchins, the priest’s children,who had stolen them to play marbles with. Thus we see how that thespine of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last intosimple child’s play.CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale.From his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereonto enlarge, amplify, and generally expatiate. Would you, you could notcompress him. By good rights he should only be treated of in imperialfolio. Not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracle to tail, andthe yards he measures about the waist; only think of the giganticinvolutions of his intestines, where they lie in him like great cablesand hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck of aline-of-battle-ship.Since I have undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan, it behooves me toapprove myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise; notoverlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and spinning himout to the uttermost coil of his bowels. Having already described himin most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it nowremains to magnify him in an archæological, fossiliferous, andantediluvian point of view. Applied to any other creature than theLeviathan—to an ant or a flea—such portly terms might justly be deemedunwarrantably grandiloquent. But when Leviathan is the text, the caseis altered. Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under the weightiestwords of the dictionary. And here be it said, that whenever it has beenconvenient to consult one in the course of these dissertations, I haveinvariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson, expressly purchasedfor that purpose; because that famous lexicographer’s uncommon personalbulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a whale authorlike me.One often hears of writers that rise and swell with their subject,though it may seem but an ordinary one. How, then, with me, writing ofthis Leviathan? Unconsciously my chirography expands into placardcapitals. Give me a condor’s quill! Give me Vesuvius’ crater for aninkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning mythoughts of this Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with theiroutreaching comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the wholecircle of the sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, andmastodons, past, present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramasof empire on earth, and throughout the whole universe, not excludingits suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large andliberal theme! We expand to its bulk. To produce a mighty book, youmust choose a mighty theme. No great and enduring volume can ever bewritten on the flea, though many there be who have tried it.Ere entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales, I present mycredentials as a geologist, by stating that in my miscellaneous time Ihave been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of ditches, canals andwells, wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts. Likewise, byway of preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while in theearlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters nowalmost completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what arecalled the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rateintercepted links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whoseremote posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the FossilWhales hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is thelast preceding the superficial formations. And though none of themprecisely answer to any known species of the present time, they are yetsufficiently akin to them in general respects, to justify their takingrank as Cetacean fossils.Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their bonesand skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals,been found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England,in Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.Among the more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in theyear 1779 was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short streetopening almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bonesdisinterred in excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon’stime. Cuvier pronounced these fragments to have belonged to someutterly unknown Leviathanic species.But by far the most wonderful of all Cetacean relics was the almostcomplete vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year 1842,on the plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama. The awe-strickencredulous slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of thefallen angels. The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, andbestowed upon it the name of Basilosaurus. But some specimen bones ofit being taken across the sea to Owen, the English Anatomist, it turnedout that this alleged reptile was a whale, though of a departedspecies. A significant illustration of the fact, again and againrepeated in this book, that the skeleton of the whale furnishes butlittle clue to the shape of his fully invested body. So Owenrechristened the monster Zeuglodon; and in his paper read before theLondon Geological Society, pronounced it, in substance, one of the mostextraordinary creatures which the mutations of the globe have blottedout of existence.When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons, skulls, tusks,jaws, ribs, and vertebræ, all characterized by partial resemblances tothe existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time bearing onthe other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronicalLeviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back tothat wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun; fortime began with man. Here Saturn’s grey chaos rolls over me, and Iobtain dim, shuddering glimpses into those Polar eternities; whenwedged bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the Tropics; andin all the 25,000 miles of this world’s circumference, not aninhabitable hand’s breadth of land was visible. Then the whole worldwas the whale’s; and, king of creation, he left his wake along thepresent lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigreelike Leviathan? Ahab’s harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh’s.Methuselah seems a school-boy. I look round to shake hands with Shem. Iam horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of theunspeakable terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time,must needs exist after all humane ages are over.But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in thestereotype plates of nature, and in limestone and marl bequeathed hisancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, whose antiquity seems to claimfor them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakableprint of his fin. In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah, somefifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite ceiling asculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs, griffins,and dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globeof the moderns. Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; wasthere swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon wascradled.Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquityof the whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down bythe venerable John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.“Not far from the Sea-side, they have a Temple, the Rafters and Beamsof which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales of a monstrous size areoftentimes cast up dead upon that shore. The Common People imagine,that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the Temple, no Whale canpass it without immediate death. But the truth of the Matter is, thaton either side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles intothe Sea, and wound the Whales when they light upon ’em. They keep aWhale’s Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon theGround with its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of whichcannot be reached by a Man upon a Camel’s Back. This Rib (says JohnLeo) is said to have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it. TheirHistorians affirm, that a Prophet who prophesy’d of Mahomet, came fromthis Temple, and some do not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonaswas cast forth by the Whale at the Base of the Temple.”In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you, reader, and if you be aNantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship there.CHAPTER 105. Does the Whale’s Magnitude Diminish?—Will He Perish?Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us fromthe head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether,in the long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from theoriginal bulk of his sires.But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of thepresent day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains arefound in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological periodprior to man), but of the whales found in that Tertiary system, thosebelonging to its latter formations exceed in size those of its earlierones.Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far the largest is theAlabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was less thanseventy feet in length in the skeleton. Whereas, we have already seen,that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of alarge sized modern whale. And I have heard, on whalemen’s authority,that Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at thetime of capture.But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are anadvance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; mayit not be, that since Adam’s time they have degenerated?Assuredly, we must conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts ofsuch gentlemen as Pliny, and the ancient naturalists generally. ForPliny tells us of whales that embraced acres of living bulk, andAldrovandus of others which measured eight hundred feet in length—RopeWalks and Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in the days of Banks andSolander, Cooke’s naturalists, we find a Danish member of the Academyof Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales (reydan-siskur, orWrinkled Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that is, threehundred and sixty feet. And Lacépède, the French naturalist, in hiselaborate history of whales, in the very beginning of his work (page3), sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred andtwenty-eight feet. And this work was published so late as A.D. 1825.But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day isas big as his ancestors in Pliny’s time. And if ever I go where Plinyis, I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.Because I cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummiesthat were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do notmeasure so much in their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks;and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldestEgyptian and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which theyare drawn, just as plainly prove that the high-bred, stall-fed, prizecattle of Smithfield, not only equal, but far exceed in magnitude thefattest of Pharaoh’s fat kine; in the face of all this, I will notadmit that of all animals the whale alone should have degenerated.But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the morerecondite Nantucketers. Whether owing to the almost omniscientlook-outs at the mast-heads of the whale-ships, now penetrating eventhrough Behring’s straits, and into the remotest secret drawers andlockers of the world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted alongall continental coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can longendure so wide a chase, and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must notat last be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like thelast man, smoke his last pipe, and then himself evaporate in the finalpuff.Comparing the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffalo,which, not forty years ago, overspread by tens of thousands theprairies of Illinois and Missouri, and shook their iron manes andscowled with their thunder-clotted brows upon the sites of populousriver-capitals, where now the polite broker sells you land at a dollaran inch; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seemfurnished, to show that the hunted whale cannot now escape speedyextinction.But you must look at this matter in every light. Though so short aperiod ago—not a good lifetime—the census of the buffalo in Illinoisexceeded the census of men now in London, and though at the present daynot one horn or hoof of them remains in all that region; and though thecause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the fardifferent nature of the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so ingloriousan end to the Leviathan. Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whalesfor forty-eight months think they have done extremely well, and thankGod, if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish. Whereas, in thedays of the old Canadian and Indian hunters and trappers of the West,when the far west (in whose sunset suns still rise) was a wildernessand a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for the same number ofmonths, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships, would have slainnot forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact that, if needwere, could be statistically stated.Nor, considered aright, does it seem any argument in favour of thegradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in formeryears (the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, insmall pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, inconsequence, the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much moreremunerative. Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales,influenced by some views to safety, now swim the seas in immensecaravans, so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries, yokes,and pods, and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast butwidely separated, unfrequent armies. That is all. And equallyfallacious seems the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bonewhales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding withthem, hence that species also is declining. For they are only beingdriven from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivenedwith their jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has beenvery recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.Furthermore: concerning these last mentioned Leviathans, they have twofirm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remainimpregnable. And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frostySwiss have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted from the savannasand glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at last resortto their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriersand walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in a charmedcircle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man.But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for onecachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that thispositive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.But though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than13,000, have been annually slain on the nor’ west coast by theAmericans alone; yet there are considerations which render even thiscircumstance of little or no account as an opposing argument in thismatter.Natural as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning the populousnessof the more enormous creatures of the globe, yet what shall we say toHarto, the historian of Goa, when he tells us that at one hunting theKing of Siam took 4,000 elephants; that in those regions elephants arenumerous as droves of cattle in the temperate climes. And there seemsno reason to doubt that if these elephants, which have now been huntedfor thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus, by Hannibal, and by allthe successive monarchs of the East—if they still survive there ingreat numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all hunting, sincehe has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as large asall Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all theIsles of the sea combined.Moreover: we are to consider, that from the presumed great longevity ofwhales, their probably attaining the age of a century and more,therefore at any one period of time, several distinct adult generationsmust be contemporary. And what that is, we may soon gain some idea of,by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults ofcreation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, andchildren who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding thiscountless host to the present human population of the globe.Wherefore, for all these things, we account the whale immortal in hisspecies, however perishable in his individuality. He swam the seasbefore the continents broke water; he once swam over the site of theTuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin. In Noah’s flood hedespised Noah’s Ark; and if ever the world is to be again flooded, likethe Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale willstill survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorialflood, spout his frothed defiance to the skies.CHAPTER 106. Ahab’s Leg.The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the SamuelEnderby of London, had not been unattended with some small violence tohis own person. He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of hisboat that his ivory leg had received a half-splintering shock. And whenafter gaining his own deck, and his own pivot-hole there, he sovehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman (itwas, as ever, something about his not steering inflexibly enough);then, the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist andwrench, that though it still remained entire, and to all appearanceslusty, yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.And, indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all hispervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to thecondition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had notbeen very long prior to the Pequod’s sailing from Nantucket, that hehad been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible;by some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, hisivory limb having been so violently displaced, that it had stake-wisesmitten, and all but pierced his groin; nor was it without extremedifficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured.Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that allthe anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue ofa former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the mostpoisonous reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably asthe sweetest songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity,all miserable events do naturally beget their like. Yea, more thanequally, thought Ahab; since both the ancestry and posterity of Griefgo further than the ancestry and posterity of Joy. For, not to hint ofthis: that it is an inference from certain canonic teachings, thatwhile some natural enjoyments here shall have no children born to themfor the other world, but, on the contrary, shall be followed by thejoy-childlessness of all hell’s despair; whereas, some guilty mortalmiseries shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternallyprogressive progeny of griefs beyond the grave; not at all to hint ofthis, there still seems an inequality in the deeper analysis of thething. For, thought Ahab, while even the highest earthly felicitiesever have a certain unsignifying pettiness lurking in them, but, atbottom, all heartwoes, a mystic significance, and, in some men, anarchangelic grandeur; so do their diligent tracings-out not belie theobvious deduction. To trail the genealogies of these high mortalmiseries, carries us at last among the sourceless primogenitures of thegods; so that, in the face of all the glad, hay-making suns, and softcymballing, round harvest-moons, we must needs give in to this: thatthe gods themselves are not for ever glad. The ineffaceable, sadbirth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in thesigners.Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might moreproperly, in set way, have been disclosed before. With many otherparticulars concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some,why it was, that for a certain period, both before and after thesailing of the Pequod, he had hidden himself away with suchGrand-Lama-like exclusiveness; and, for that one interval, soughtspeechless refuge, as it were, among the marble senate of the dead.Captain Peleg’s bruited reason for this thing appeared by no meansadequate; though, indeed, as touching all Ahab’s deeper part, everyrevelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatorylight. But, in the end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least.That direful mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness. Andnot only this, but to that ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore,who, for any reason, possessed the privilege of a less banned approachto him; to that timid circle the above hinted casualty—remaining, as itdid, moodily unaccounted for by Ahab—invested itself with terrors, notentirely underived from the land of spirits and of wails. So that,through their zeal for him, they had all conspired, so far as in themlay, to muffle up the knowledge of this thing from others; and hence itwas, that not till a considerable interval had elapsed, did ittranspire upon the Pequod’s decks.But be all this as it may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air,or the vindictive princes and potentates of fire, have to do or notwith earthly Ahab, yet, in this present matter of his leg, he tookplain practical procedures;—he called the carpenter.And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him withoutdelay set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see himsupplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) whichhad thus far been accumulated on the voyage, in order that a carefulselection of the stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured.This done, the carpenter received orders to have the leg completed thatnight; and to provide all the fittings for it, independent of thosepertaining to the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship’s forge wasordered to be hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold; and,to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed atonce to the forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed.CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.Seat thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn, and take highabstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. Butfrom the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, theyseem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary.But most humble though he was, and far from furnishing an example ofthe high, humane abstraction; the Pequod’s carpenter was no duplicate;hence, he now comes in person on this stage.Like all sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belongingto whaling vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent,alike experienced in numerous trades and callings collateral to hisown; the carpenter’s pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunkof all those numerous handicrafts which more or less have to do withwood as an auxiliary material. But, besides the application to him ofthe generic remark above, this carpenter of the Pequod was singularlyefficient in those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continuallyrecurring in a large ship, upon a three or four years’ voyage, inuncivilized and far-distant seas. For not to speak of his readiness inordinary duties:—repairing stove boats, sprung spars, reforming theshape of clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull’s eyes in the deck, or newtree-nails in the side planks, and other miscellaneous matters moredirectly pertaining to his special business; he was moreoverunhesitatingly expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes, bothuseful and capricious.The one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold,was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table furnished with severalvices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of wood. At all timesexcept when whales were alongside, this bench was securely lashedathwartships against the rear of the Try-works.A belaying pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole:the carpenter claps it into one of his ever-ready vices, andstraightway files it smaller. A lost land-bird of strange plumagestrays on board, and is made a captive: out of clean shaved rods ofright-whale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, the carpentermakes a pagoda-looking cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: thecarpenter concocts a soothing lotion. Stubb longed for vermillion starsto be painted upon the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in hisbig vice of wood, the carpenter symmetrically supplies theconstellation. A sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: thecarpenter drills his ears. Another has the toothache: the carpenter outpincers, and clapping one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there;but the poor fellow unmanageably winces under the unconcludedoperation; whirling round the handle of his wooden vice, the carpentersigns him to clap his jaw in that, if he would have him draw the tooth.Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all points, and alike indifferentand without respect in all. Teeth he accounted bits of ivory; heads hedeemed but top-blocks; men themselves he lightly held for capstans. Butwhile now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplished and withsuch liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this would seem to arguesome uncommon vivacity of intelligence. But not precisely so. Fornothing was this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonalstolidity as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into thesurrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with the generalstolidity discernible in the whole visible world; which whilepauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace,and ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yet wasthis half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, anall-ramifying heartlessness;—yet was it oddly dashed at times, with anold, crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreakednow and then with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might haveserved to pass the time during the midnight watch on the beardedforecastle of Noah’s ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been alife-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only hadgathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off whatever smalloutward clingings might have originally pertained to him? He was astript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-bornbabe; living without premeditated reference to this world or the next.You might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in himinvolved a sort of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he didnot seem to work so much by reason or by instinct, or simply because hehad been tutored to it, or by any intermixture of all these, even oruneven; but merely by a kind of deaf and dumb, spontaneous literalprocess. He was a pure manipulator; his brain, if he had ever had one,must have early oozed along into the muscles of his fingers. He waslike one of those unreasoning but still highly useful, multum inparvo, Sheffield contrivances, assuming the exterior—though a littleswelled—of a common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades ofvarious sizes, but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls,pens, rulers, nail-filers, countersinkers. So, if his superiors wantedto use the carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to openthat part of him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take himup by the legs, and there they were.Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled, open-and-shut carpenter,was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton. If he did not have acommon soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow anomalouslydid its duty. What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a fewdrops of hartshorn, there is no telling. But there it was; and there ithad abided for now some sixty years or more. And this it was, this sameunaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kepthim a great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like anunreasoning wheel, which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, hisbody was a sentry-box and this soliloquizer on guard there, and talkingall the time to keep himself awake.CHAPTER 108. Ahab and the Carpenter.The Deck—First Night Watch.(Carpenter standing before his vice-bench, and by the light of twolanterns busily filing the ivory joist for the leg, which joist isfirmly fixed in the vice. Slabs of ivory, leather straps, pads, screws,and various tools of all sorts lying about the bench. Forward, the redflame of the forge is seen, where the blacksmith is at work.)Drat the file, and drat the bone! That is hard which should be soft,and that is soft which should be hard. So we go, who file old jaws andshinbones. Let’s try another. Aye, now, this works better (sneezes).Halloa, this bone dust is (sneezes)—why it’s (sneezes)—yes it’s(sneezes)—bless my soul, it won’t let me speak! This is what an oldfellow gets now for working in dead lumber. Saw a live tree, and youdon’t get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don’t get it(sneezes). Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let’shave that ferule and buckle-screw; I’ll be ready for them presently.Lucky now (sneezes) there’s no knee-joint to make; that might puzzlea little; but a mere shinbone—why it’s easy as making hop-poles; only Ishould like to put a good finish on. Time, time; if I but only had thetime, I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (sneezes)scraped to a lady in a parlor. Those buckskin legs and calves of legsI’ve seen in shop windows wouldn’t compare at all. They soak water,they do; and of course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored(sneezes) with washes and lotions, just like live legs. There; beforeI saw it off, now, I must call his old Mogulship, and see whether thelength will be all right; too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that’sthe heel; we are in luck; here he comes, or it’s somebody else, that’scertain.AHAB (advancing). (During the ensuing scene, the carpenter continuessneezing at times.)Well, manmaker!Just in time, sir. If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.Let me measure, sir.Measured for a leg! good. Well, it’s not the first time. About it!There; keep thy finger on it. This is a cogent vice thou hast here,carpenter; let me feel its grip once. So, so; it does pinch some.Oh, sir, it will break bones—beware, beware!No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this slipperyworld that can hold, man. What’s Prometheus about there?—theblacksmith, I mean—what’s he about?He must be forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.Right. It’s a partnership; he supplies the muscle part. He makes afierce red flame there!Aye, sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work.Um-m. So he must. I do deem it now a most meaning thing, that that oldGreek, Prometheus, who made men, they say, should have been ablacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what’s made in fire mustproperly belong to fire; and so hell’s probable. How the soot flies!This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of. Carpenter,when he’s through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of steelshoulder-blades; there’s a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.Sir?Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I’ll order a complete man after adesirable pattern. Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chestmodelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to ’em, to stayin one place; then, arms three feet through the wrist; no heart at all,brass forehead, and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains; and letme see—shall I order eyes to see outwards? No, but put a sky-light ontop of his head to illuminate inwards. There, take the order, and away.Now, what’s he speaking about, and who’s he speaking to, I should liketo know? Shall I keep standing here? (aside).’Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here’s one. No,no, no; I must have a lantern.Ho, ho! That’s it, hey? Here are two, sir; one will serve my turn.What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?Thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.I thought, sir, that you spoke to carpenter.Carpenter? why that’s—but no;—a very tidy, and, I may say, an extremelygentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here, carpenter;—or would’stthou rather work in clay?Sir?—Clay? clay, sir? That’s mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.The fellow’s impious! What art thou sneezing about?Bone is rather dusty, sir.Take the hint, then; and when thou art dead, never bury thyself underliving people’s noses.Sir?—oh! ah!—I guess so;—yes—oh, dear!Look ye, carpenter, I dare say thou callest thyself a right goodworkmanlike workman, eh? Well, then, will it speak thoroughly well forthy work, if, when I come to mount this leg thou makest, I shallnevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it; thatis, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one, I mean. Canstthou not drive that old Adam away?Truly, sir, I begin to understand somewhat now. Yes, I have heardsomething curious on that score, sir; how that a dismasted man neverentirely loses the feeling of his old spar, but it will be stillpricking him at times. May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir?It is, man. Look, put thy live leg here in the place where mine oncewas; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to thesoul. Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there toa hair, do I. Is’t a riddle?I should humbly call it a poser, sir.Hist, then. How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thingmay not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely wherethou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite? In thy mostsolitary hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers? Hold, don’tspeak! And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it benow so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel thefiery pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah!Good Lord! Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must calculate overagain; I think I didn’t carry a small figure, sir.Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.—How long before theleg is done?Perhaps an hour, sir.Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me (turns to go). Oh, Life!Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to thisblockhead for a bone to stand on! Cursed be that mortalinter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers. I would be freeas air; and I’m down in the whole world’s books. I am so rich, I couldhave given bid for bid with the wealthiest Prætorians at the auction ofthe Roman empire (which was the world’s); and yet I owe for the fleshin the tongue I brag with. By heavens! I’ll get a crucible, and intoit, and dissolve myself down to one small, compendious vertebra. So.CARPENTER (resuming his work).Well, well, well! Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb always sayshe’s queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word queer;he’s queer, says Stubb; he’s queer—queer, queer; and keeps dinning itinto Mr. Starbuck all the time—queer—sir—queer, queer, very queer. Andhere’s his leg! Yes, now that I think of it, here’s his bedfellow! hasa stick of whale’s jaw-bone for a wife! And this is his leg; he’llstand on this. What was that now about one leg standing in threeplaces, and all three places standing in one hell—how was that? Oh! Idon’t wonder he looked so scornful at me! I’m a sort ofstrange-thoughted sometimes, they say; but that’s only haphazard-like.Then, a short, little old body like me, should never undertake to wadeout into deep waters with tall, heron-built captains; the water chucksyou under the chin pretty quick, and there’s a great cry forlife-boats. And here’s the heron’s leg! long and slim, sure enough!Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime, and that must bebecause they use them mercifully, as a tender-hearted old lady uses herroly-poly old coach-horses. But Ahab; oh he’s a hard driver. Look,driven one leg to death, and spavined the other for life, and now wearsout bone legs by the cord. Halloa, there, you Smut! bear a hand therewith those screws, and let’s finish it before the resurrection fellowcomes a-calling with his horn for all legs, true or false, asbrewery-men go round collecting old beer barrels, to fill ’em up again.What a leg this is! It looks like a real live leg, filed down tonothing but the core; he’ll be standing on this to-morrow; he’ll betaking altitudes on it. Halloa! I almost forgot the little oval slate,smoothed ivory, where he figures up the latitude. So, so; chisel, file,and sand-paper, now!CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.According to usage they were pumping the ship next morning; and lo! noinconsiderable oil came up with the water; the casks below must havesprung a bad leak. Much concern was shown; and Starbuck went down intothe cabin to report this unfavourable affair.**In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, itis a regular semi-weekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, anddrench the casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varyingintervals, is removed by the ship’s pumps. Hereby the casks are soughtto be kept damply tight; while by the changed character of thewithdrawn water, the mariners readily detect any serious leakage in theprecious cargo.Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa andthe Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets fromthe China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with ageneral chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; andanother separate one representing the long eastern coasts of theJapanese islands—Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white newivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table, and with a longpruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, withhis back to the gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing hisold courses again.“Who’s there?” hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning roundto it. “On deck! Begone!”“Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir.We must up Burtons and break out.”“Up Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to herefor a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?”“Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may makegood in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worthsaving, sir.”“So it is, so it is; if we get it.”“I was speaking of the oil in the hold, sir.”“And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all. Begone! Let itleak! I’m all aleak myself. Aye! leaks in leaks! not only full of leakycasks, but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that’s a farworse plight than the Pequod’s, man. Yet I don’t stop to plug my leak;for who can find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it,even if found, in this life’s howling gale? Starbuck! I’ll not have theBurtons hoisted.”“What will the owners say, sir?”“Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons. Whatcares Ahab? Owners, owners? Thou art always prating to me, Starbuck,about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my conscience. Butlook ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye,my conscience is in this ship’s keel.—On deck!”“Captain Ahab,” said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin,with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almostseemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outwardmanifestation of itself, but within also seemed more than halfdistrustful of itself; “A better man than I might well pass over inthee what he would quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye, and ina happier, Captain Ahab.”“Devils! Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?—Ondeck!”“Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat. And I do dare, sir—to be forbearing!Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain Ahab?”Ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of mostSouth-Sea-men’s cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,exclaimed: “There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and oneCaptain that is lord over the Pequod.—On deck!”For an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate, and his fiery cheeks,you would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze ofthe levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose, andas he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: “Thou hastoutraged, not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask thee not to bewareof Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab;beware of thyself, old man.”“He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most careful bravery that!”murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared. “What’s that he said—Ahabbeware of Ahab—there’s something there!” Then unconsciously using themusket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the littlecabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, andreturning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.“Thou art but too good a fellow, Starbuck,” he said lowly to the mate;then raising his voice to the crew: “Furl the t’gallant-sails, andclose-reef the top-sails, fore and aft; back the main-yard; up Burton,and break out in the main-hold.”It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respectingStarbuck, Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him;or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiouslyforbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient,in the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orderswere executed; and the Burtons were hoisted.CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.Upon searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the holdwere perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, itbeing calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing theslumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnightsending those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did theygo; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermostpuncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stonecask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the postedplacards, vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood.Tierce after tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks ofstaves, and iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, till at last thepiled decks were hard to get about; and the hollow hull echoed underfoot, as if you were treading over empty catacombs, and reeled androlled in the sea like an air-freighted demijohn. Top-heavy was theship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle in his head. Well wasit that the Typhoons did not visit them then.Now, at this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fastbosom-friend, Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nighto his endless end.Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, thehigher you rise the harder you toil. So with poor Queequeg, who, asharpooneer, must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but—aswe have elsewhere seen—mount his dead back in a rolling sea; andfinally descend into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating allday in that subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle theclumsiest casks and see to their stowage. To be short, among whalemen,the harpooneers are the holders, so called.Poor Queequeg! when the ship was about half disembowelled, you shouldhave stooped over the hatchway, and peered down upon him there; where,stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage was crawling aboutamid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard at the bottomof a well. And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to him, poorpagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings, hecaught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, aftersome days’ suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sillof the door of death. How he wasted and wasted away in those fewlong-lingering days, till there seemed but little left of him but hisframe and tattooing. But as all else in him thinned, and hischeek-bones grew sharper, his eyes, nevertheless, seemed growing fullerand fuller; they became of a strange softness of lustre; and mildly butdeeply looked out at you there from his sickness, a wondrous testimonyto that immortal health in him which could not die, or be weakened. Andlike circles on the water, which, as they grow fainter, expand; so hiseyes seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of Eternity. An awethat cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side ofthis waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as anybeheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is trulywondrous and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. Andthe drawing near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses allwith a last revelation, which only an author from the dead couldadequately tell. So that—let us say it again—no dying Chaldee or Greekhad higher and holier thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades yousaw creeping over the face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in hisswaying hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to hisfinal rest, and the ocean’s invisible flood-tide lifted him higher andhigher towards his destined heaven.Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself,what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour heasked. He called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day wasjust breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he hadchanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the richwar-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that allwhalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes,and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it wasnot unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a deadwarrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floatedaway to the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that thestars are isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their ownmild, uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so formthe white breakers of the milky way. He added, that he shuddered at thethought of being buried in his hammock, according to the usualsea-custom, tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks.No: he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket, all the more congenialto him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat these coffin-canoeswere without a keel; though that involved but uncertain steering, andmuch lee-way adown the dim ages.Now, when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenterwas at once commanded to do Queequeg’s bidding, whatever it mightinclude. There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard,which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginalgroves of the Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coffinwas recommended to be made. No sooner was the carpenter apprised of theorder, than taking his rule, he forthwith with all the indifferentpromptitude of his character, proceeded into the forecastle and tookQueequeg’s measure with great accuracy, regularly chalking Queequeg’sperson as he shifted the rule.“Ah! poor fellow! he’ll have to die now,” ejaculated the Long Islandsailor.Going to his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and generalreference, now transferringly measured on it the exact length thecoffin was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by cutting twonotches at its extremities. This done, he marshalled the planks and histools, and to work.When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted, helightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiringwhether they were ready for it yet in that direction.Overhearing the indignant but half-humorous cries with which the peopleon deck began to drive the coffin away, Queequeg, to every one’sconsternation, commanded that the thing should be instantly brought tohim, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of all mortals, somedying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they willshortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to beindulged.Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin with anattentive eye. He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stockdrawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin alongwith one of the paddles of his boat. All by his own request, also,biscuits were then ranged round the sides within: a flask of freshwater was placed at the head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped upin the hold at the foot; and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up fora pillow, Queequeg now entreated to be lifted into his final bed, thathe might make trial of its comforts, if any it had. He lay withoutmoving a few minutes, then told one to go to his bag and bring out hislittle god, Yojo. Then crossing his arms on his breast with Yojobetween, he called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placedover him. The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there layQueequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance inview. “Rarmai” (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, andsigned to be replaced in his hammock.But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by allthis while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, tookhim by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.“Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? wherego ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles wherethe beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one littleerrand for me? Seek out one Pip, who’s now been missing long: I thinkhe’s in those far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for hemust be very sad; for look! he’s left his tambourine behind;—I foundit. Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I’ll beat ye yourdying march.”“I have heard,” murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, “that inviolent fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; andthat when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in theirwholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spokenin their hearing by some lofty scholars. So, to my fond faith, poorPip, in this strange sweetness of his lunacy, brings heavenly vouchersof all our heavenly homes. Where learned he that, but there?—Hark! hespeaks again: but more wildly now.”“Form two and two! Let’s make a General of him! Ho, where’s hisharpoon? Lay it across here.—Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza! Oh for a gamecock now to sit upon his head and crow! Queequeg dies game!—mind yethat; Queequeg dies game!—take ye good heed of that; Queequeg diesgame! I say; game, game, game! but base little Pip, he died a coward;died all a’shiver;—out upon Pip! Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all theAntilles he’s a runaway; a coward, a coward, a coward! Tell them hejumped from a whale-boat! I’d never beat my tambourine over base Pip,and hail him General, if he were once more dying here. No, no! shameupon all cowards—shame upon them! Let ’em go drown like Pip, thatjumped from a whale-boat. Shame! shame!”During all this, Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream. Pipwas led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock.But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; nowthat his coffin was proved a good fit, Queequeg suddenly rallied; soonthere seemed no need of the carpenter’s box: and thereupon, when someexpressed their delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, that thecause of his sudden convalescence was this;—at a critical moment, hehad just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was leaving undone;and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not die yet,he averred. They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a matterof his own sovereign will and pleasure. He answered, certainly. In aword, it was Queequeg’s conceit, that if a man made up his mind tolive, mere sickness could not kill him: nothing but a whale, or a gale,or some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of that sort.Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized;that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.So, in good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length aftersitting on the windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with avigorous appetite) he suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out his armsand legs, gave himself a good stretching, yawned a little bit, and thenspringing into the head of his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon,pronounced himself fit for a fight.With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; andemptying into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there.Many spare hours he spent, in carving the lid with all manner ofgrotesque figures and drawings; and it seemed that hereby he wasstriving, in his rude way, to copy parts of the twisted tattooing onhis body. And this tattooing had been the work of a departed prophetand seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had writtenout on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and amystical treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg inhis own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in onevolume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his ownlive heart beat against them; and these mysteries were thereforedestined in the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereonthey were inscribed, and so be unsolved to the last. And this thoughtit must have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his,when one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg—“Oh,devilish tantalization of the gods!”CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the greatSouth Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dearPacific with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of myyouth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me athousand leagues of blue.There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gentlyawful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath; like thosefabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St.John. And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures, wide-rolling wateryprairies and Potters’ Fields of all four continents, the waves shouldrise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions ofmixed shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; allthat we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossinglike slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so bytheir restlessness.To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once beheld, mustever after be the sea of his adoption. It rolls the midmost waters ofthe world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms. The samewaves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterdayplanted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but stillgorgeous skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all betweenfloat milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknownArchipelagoes, and impenetrable Japans. Thus this mysterious, divinePacific zones the world’s whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay toit; seems the tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternalswells, you needs must own the seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab’s brain, as standing like an ironstatue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging, with onenostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles(in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with the otherconsciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea inwhich the hated White Whale must even then be swimming. Launched atlength upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanesecruising-ground, the old man’s purpose intensified itself. His firmlips met like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead’s veinsswelled like overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ranthrough the vaulted hull, “Stern all! the White Whale spouts thickblood!”CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.Availing himself of the mild, summer-cool weather that now reigned inthese latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active pursuitsshortly to be anticipated, Perth, the begrimed, blistered oldblacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to the hold again, afterconcluding his contributory work for Ahab’s leg, but still retained iton deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being now almostincessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen to dosome little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping theirvarious weapons and boat furniture. Often he would be surrounded by aneager circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades,pike-heads, harpoons, and lances, and jealously watching his everysooty movement, as he toiled. Nevertheless, this old man’s was apatient hammer wielded by a patient arm. No murmur, no impatience, nopetulance did come from him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing overstill further his chronically broken back, he toiled away, as if toilwere life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beatingof his heart. And so it was.—Most miserable!A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearingyawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited thecuriosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persistedquestionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that everyone now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate.Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter’s midnight, on the roadrunning between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly feltthe deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning,dilapidated barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of bothfeet. Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the fouracts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophiedfifth act of the grief of his life’s drama.He was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had postponedlyencountered that thing in sorrow’s technicals called ruin. He had beenan artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a houseand garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife, and threeblithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerful-looking church,planted in a grove. But one night, under cover of darkness, and furtherconcealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid intohis happy home, and robbed them all of everything. And darker yet totell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar intohis family’s heart. It was the Bottle Conjuror! Upon the opening ofthat fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now,for prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith’s shop wasin the basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; sothat always had the young and loving healthy wife listened with nounhappy nervousness, but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringingof her young-armed old husband’s hammer; whose reverberations, muffledby passing through the floors and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly,in her nursery; and so, to stout Labor’s iron lullaby, the blacksmith’sinfants were rocked to slumber.Oh, woe on woe! Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely?Hadst thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin cameupon him, then had the young widow had a delicious grief, and herorphans a truly venerable, legendary sire to dream of in their afteryears; and all of them a care-killing competency. But Death pluckeddown some virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil solelyhung the responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse thanuseless old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make himeasier to harvest.Why tell the whole? The blows of the basement hammer every day grewmore and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than thelast; the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes,glitteringly gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellowsfell; the forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the motherdived down into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followedher thither; and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off avagabond in crape; his every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn toflaxen curls!Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Deathis only a launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is butthe first salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, theWild, the Watery, the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes ofsuch men, who still have left in them some interior compunctionsagainst suicide, does the all-contributed and all-receptive oceanalluringly spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable, takingterrors, and wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts ofinfinite Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them—“Come hither,broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of intermediatedeath; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Comehither! bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred andabhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hither! putup thy gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, tillwe marry thee!”Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and byfall of eve, the blacksmith’s soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perthwent a-whaling.CHAPTER 113. The Forge.With matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, aboutmid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latterplaced upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in thecoals, and with the other at his forge’s lungs, when Captain Ahab camealong, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag. Whileyet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last,Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it upon theanvil—the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights,some of which flew close to Ahab.“Are these thy Mother Carey’s chickens, Perth? they are always flyingin thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;—look here, theyburn; but thou—thou liv’st among them without a scorch.”“Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab,” answered Perth, restingfor a moment on his hammer; “I am past scorching; not easily can’stthou scorch a scar.”“Well, well; no more. Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woefulto me. In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in othersthat is not mad. Thou should’st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thounot go mad? How can’st thou endure without being mad? Do the heavensyet hate thee, that thou can’st not go mad?—What wert thou makingthere?”“Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in it.”“And can’st thou make it all smooth again, blacksmith, after such hardusage as it had?”“I think so, sir.”“And I suppose thou can’st smoothe almost any seams and dents; nevermind how hard the metal, blacksmith?”“Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one.”“Look ye here, then,” cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaningwith both hands on Perth’s shoulders; “look ye here—here—can yesmoothe out a seam like this, blacksmith,” sweeping one hand across hisribbed brow; “if thou could’st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay myhead upon thy anvil, and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes.Answer! Can’st thou smoothe this seam?”“Oh! that is the one, sir! Said I not all seams and dents but one?”“Aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; forthough thou only see’st it here in my flesh, it has worked down intothe bone of my skull—that is all wrinkles! But, away with child’splay; no more gaffs and pikes to-day. Look ye here!” jingling theleathern bag, as if it were full of gold coins. “I, too, want a harpoonmade; one that a thousand yoke of fiends could not part, Perth;something that will stick in a whale like his own fin-bone. There’s thestuff,” flinging the pouch upon the anvil. “Look ye, blacksmith, theseare the gathered nail-stubbs of the steel shoes of racing horses.”“Horse-shoe stubbs, sir? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, then, thebest and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work.”“I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from themelted bones of murderers. Quick! forge me the harpoon. And forge mefirst, twelve rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammerthese twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow-line. Quick!I’ll blow the fire.”When at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, byspiralling them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt. “Aflaw!” rejecting the last one. “Work that over again, Perth.”This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, whenAhab stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, then,with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing tohim the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forgeshooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, andbowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse orsome blessing on the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside.“What’s that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?” mutteredStubb, looking on from the forecastle. “That Parsee smells fire like afusee; and smells of it himself, like a hot musket’s powder-pan.”At last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and asPerth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water nearby, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab’s bent face.“Would’st thou brand me, Perth?” wincing for a moment with the pain;“have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?”“Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not thisharpoon for the White Whale?”“For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make themthyself, man. Here are my razors—the best of steel; here, and make thebarbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea.”For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he wouldfain not use them.“Take them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup,nor pray till—but here—to work!”Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to theshank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as theblacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior totempering them, he cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.“No, no—no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper. Ahoy,there! Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo! What say ye, pagans! Will ye give meas much blood as will cover this barb?” holding it high up. A clusterof dark nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in the heathenflesh, and the White Whale’s barbs were then tempered.“Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!”deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured thebaptismal blood.Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one ofhickory, with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to thesocket of the iron. A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and somefathoms of it taken to the windlass, and stretched to a great tension.Pressing his foot upon it, till the rope hummed like a harp-string,then eagerly bending over it, and seeing no strandings, Ahab exclaimed,“Good! and now for the seizings.”At one extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarnswere all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the polewas then driven hard up into the socket; from the lower end the ropewas traced half-way along the pole’s length, and firmly secured so,with intertwistings of twine. This done, pole, iron, and rope—like theThree Fates—remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away withthe weapon; the sound of his ivory leg, and the sound of the hickorypole, both hollowly ringing along every plank. But ere he entered hiscabin, light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most piteous sound washeard. Oh, Pip! thy wretched laugh, thy idle but unresting eye; all thystrange mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of themelancholy ship, and mocked it!CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.Penetrating further and further into the heart of the Japanese cruisingground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery. Often, in mild,pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours onthe stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily pulling, orsailing, or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of sixty orseventy minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but smallsuccess for their pains.At such times, under an abated sun; afloat all day upon smooth, slowheaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and sosociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stonecats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamyquietude, when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of theocean’s skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; andwould not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals aremorseless fang.These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels acertain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that heregards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealingonly the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through highrolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as whenthe western emigrants’ horses only show their erected ears, while theirhidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.The long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over thesethere steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-weariedchildren lie sleeping in these solitudes, in some glad May-time, whenthe flowers of the woods are plucked. And all this mixes with your mostmystic mood; so that fact and fancy, half-way meeting, interpenetrate,and form one seamless whole.Nor did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least astemporary an effect on Ahab. But if these secret golden keys did seemto open in him his own secret golden treasuries, yet did his breathupon them prove but tarnishing.Oh, grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; inye,—though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life,—in ye,men yet may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for somefew fleeting moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them.Would to God these blessed calms would last. But the mingled, minglingthreads of life are woven by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, astorm for every calm. There is no steady unretracing progress in thislife; we do not advance through fixed gradations, and at the last onepause:—through infancy’s unconscious spell, boyhood’s thoughtlessfaith, adolescence’ doubt (the common doom), then scepticism, thendisbelief, resting at last in manhood’s pondering repose of If. Butonce gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, andmen, and Ifs eternally. Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoorno more? In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest willnever weary? Where is the foundling’s father hidden? Our souls are likethose orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret ofour paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.And that same day, too, gazing far down from his boat’s side into thatsame golden sea, Starbuck lowly murmured:—“Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride’seye!—Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy kidnappingcannibal ways. Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deepdown and do believe.”And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales, leaped up in that samegolden light:—“I am Stubb, and Stubb has his history; but here Stubb takes oaths thathe has always been jolly!”CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.And jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing downbefore the wind, some few weeks after Ahab’s harpoon had been welded.It was a Nantucket ship, the Bachelor, which had just wedged in herlast cask of oil, and bolted down her bursting hatches; and now, inglad holiday apparel, was joyously, though somewhat vain-gloriously,sailing round among the widely-separated ships on the ground, previousto pointing her prow for home.The three men at her mast-head wore long streamers of narrow redbunting at their hats; from the stern, a whale-boat was suspended,bottom down; and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the longlower jaw of the last whale they had slain. Signals, ensigns, and jacksof all colours were flying from her rigging, on every side. Sidewayslashed in each of her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm;above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers ofthe same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazenlamp.As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the mostsurprising success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising inthe same seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months withoutsecuring a single fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread beengiven away to make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additionalsupplemental casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met;and these were stowed along the deck, and in the captain’s andofficers’ state-rooms. Even the cabin table itself had been knockedinto kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of anoil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece. In theforecastle, the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests,and filled them; it was humorously added, that the cook had clapped ahead on his largest boiler, and filled it; that the steward had pluggedhis spare coffee-pot and filled it; that the harpooneers had headed thesockets of their irons and filled them; that indeed everything wasfilled with sperm, except the captain’s pantaloons pockets, and thosehe reserved to thrust his hands into, in self-complacent testimony ofhis entire satisfaction.As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, thebarbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle; and drawingstill nearer, a crowd of her men were seen standing round her hugetry-pots, which, covered with the parchment-like poke or stomach skinof the black fish, gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of theclenched hands of the crew. On the quarter-deck, the mates andharpooneers were dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped withthem from the Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat,firmly secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three LongIsland negroes, with glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, werepresiding over the hilarious jig. Meanwhile, others of the ship’scompany were tumultuously busy at the masonry of the try-works, fromwhich the huge pots had been removed. You would have almost thoughtthey were pulling down the cursed Bastille, such wild cries theyraised, as the now useless brick and mortar were being hurled into thesea.Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on theship’s elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama wasfull before him, and seemed merely contrived for his own individualdiversion.And Ahab, he too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black,with a stubborn gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other’swakes—one all jubilations for things passed, the other all forebodingsas to things to come—their two captains in themselves impersonated thewhole striking contrast of the scene.“Come aboard, come aboard!” cried the gay Bachelor’s commander, liftinga glass and a bottle in the air.“Hast seen the White Whale?” gritted Ahab in reply.“No; only heard of him; but don’t believe in him at all,” said theother good-humoredly. “Come aboard!”“Thou art too damned jolly. Sail on. Hast lost any men?”“Not enough to speak of—two islanders, that’s all;—but come aboard, oldhearty, come along. I’ll soon take that black from your brow. Comealong, will ye (merry’s the play); a full ship and homeward-bound.”“How wondrous familiar is a fool!” muttered Ahab; then aloud, “Thou arta full ship and homeward bound, thou sayst; well, then, call me anempty ship, and outward-bound. So go thy ways, and I will mine. Forwardthere! Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!”And thus, while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the otherstubbornly fought against it; and so the two vessels parted; the crewof the Pequod looking with grave, lingering glances towards thereceding Bachelor; but the Bachelor’s men never heeding their gaze forthe lively revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over thetaffrail, eyed the homeward-bound craft, he took from his pocket asmall vial of sand, and then looking from the ship to the vial, seemedthereby bringing two remote associations together, for that vial wasfilled with Nantucket soundings.CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.Not seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune’s favouritessail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of therushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemedit with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor,whales were seen and four were slain; and one of them by Ahab.It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of thecrimson fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky,sun and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness andsuch plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosyair, that it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green conventvalleys of the Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turnedsailor, had gone to sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.Soothed again, but only soothed to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sternedoff from the whale, sat intently watching his final wanings from thenow tranquil boat. For that strange spectacle observable in all spermwhales dying—the turning sunwards of the head, and so expiring—thatstrange spectacle, beheld of such a placid evening, somehow to Ahabconveyed a wondrousness unknown before.“He turns and turns him to it,—how slowly, but how steadfastly, hishomage-rendering and invoking brow, with his last dying motions. He tooworships fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun!—Ohthat these too-favouring eyes should see these too-favouring sights.Look! here, far water-locked; beyond all hum of human weal or woe; inthese most candid and impartial seas; where to traditions no rocksfurnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the billows have stillrolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine upon theNiger’s unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of faith;but see! no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and itheads some other way.“Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned bones hast buildedthy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured seas;thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to me in thewide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm. Norhas this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone roundagain, without a lesson to me.“Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power! Oh, high aspiring,rainbowed jet!—that one strivest, this one jettest all in vain! Invain, oh whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon all-quickeningsun, that only calls forth life, but gives it not again. Yet dost thou,darker half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith. All thyunnamable imminglings float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths ofonce living things, exhaled as air, but water now.“Then hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings the wildfowl finds his only rest. Born of earth, yet suckled by the sea; thoughhill and valley mothered me, ye billows are my foster-brothers!”CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far towindward; one, less distant, to leeward; one ahead; one astern. Theselast three were brought alongside ere nightfall; but the windward onecould not be reached till morning; and the boat that had killed it layby its side all night; and that boat was Ahab’s.The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale’s spout-hole; andthe lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare uponthe black, glossy back, and far out upon the midnight waves, whichgently chafed the whale’s broad flank, like soft surf upon a beach.Ahab and all his boat’s crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; whocrouching in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally playedround the whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. Asound like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgivenghosts of Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air.Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; andhooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in aflooded world. “I have dreamed it again,” said he.“Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse norcoffin can be thine?”“And who are hearsed that die on the sea?”“But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, twohearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made bymortal hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown inAmerica.”“Aye, aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:—a hearse and its plumesfloating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such asight we shall not soon see.”“Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.”“And what was that saying about thyself?”“Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot.”“And when thou art so gone before—if that ever befall—then ere I canfollow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still?—Was it not so?Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot! I have here twopledges that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it.”“Take another pledge, old man,” said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted uplike fire-flies in the gloom—“Hemp only can kill thee.”“The gallows, ye mean.—I am immortal then, on land and on sea,” criedAhab, with a laugh of derision;—“Immortal on land and on sea!”Both were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and theslumbering crew arose from the boat’s bottom, and ere noon the deadwhale was brought to the ship.CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.The season for the Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab,coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman wouldostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager mariners quickly run tothe braces, and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixedon the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the ship’sprow for the equator. In good time the order came. It was hard uponhigh noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, wasabout taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine hislatitude.Now, in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets ofeffulgences. That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazingfocus of the glassy ocean’s immeasurable burning-glass. The sky lookslacquered; clouds there are none; the horizon floats; and thisnakedness of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors ofGod’s throne. Well that Ahab’s quadrant was furnished with colouredglasses, through which to take sight of that solar fire. So, swinginghis seated form to the roll of the ship, and with hisastrological-looking instrument placed to his eye, he remained in thatposture for some moments to catch the precise instant when the sunshould gain its precise meridian. Meantime while his whole attentionwas absorbed, the Parsee was kneeling beneath him on the ship’s deck,and with face thrown up like Ahab’s, was eyeing the same sun with him;only the lids of his eyes half hooded their orbs, and his wild face wassubdued to an earthly passionlessness. At length the desiredobservation was taken; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahabsoon calculated what his latitude must be at that precise instant. Thenfalling into a moment’s revery, he again looked up towards the sun andmurmured to himself: “Thou sea-mark! thou high and mighty Pilot! thoutellest me truly where I am—but canst thou cast the least hint whereI shall be? Or canst thou tell where some other thing besides me isthis moment living? Where is Moby Dick? This instant thou must beeyeing him. These eyes of mine look into the very eye that is even nowbeholding him; aye, and into the eye that is even now equally beholdingthe objects on the unknown, thither side of thee, thou sun!”Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, itsnumerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered:“Foolish toy! babies’ plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores,and Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; butwhat after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, wherethou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand thatholds thee: no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop ofwater or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thyimpotence thou insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy;and cursed be all the things that cast man’s eyes aloft to that heaven,whose live vividness but scorches him, as these old eyes are even nowscorched with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth’s horizonare the glances of man’s eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, asif God had meant him to gaze on his firmament. Curse thee, thouquadrant!” dashing it to the deck, “no longer will I guide my earthlyway by thee; the level ship’s compass, and the level dead-reckoning, bylog and by line; these shall conduct me, and show me my place on thesea. Aye,” lighting from the boat to the deck, “thus I trample on thee,thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split anddestroy thee!”As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live anddead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and afatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself—these passed over themute, motionless Parsee’s face. Unobserved he rose and glided away;while, awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clusteredtogether on the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck,shouted out—“To the braces! Up helm!—square in!”In an instant the yards swung round; and as the ship half-wheeled uponher heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon herlong, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on onesufficient steed.Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod’stumultuous way, and Ahab’s also, as he went lurching along the deck.“I have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, fullof its tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down,down, to dumbest dust. Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life ofthine, what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes!”“Aye,” cried Stubb, “but sea-coal ashes—mind ye that, Mr.Starbuck—sea-coal, not your common charcoal. Well, well; I heard Ahabmutter, ‘Here some one thrusts these cards into these old hands ofmine; swears that I must play them, and no others.’ And damn me, Ahab,but thou actest right; live in the game, and die in it!”CHAPTER 119. The Candles.Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengalcrouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies the mosteffulgent but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knowstornadoes that never swept tame northern lands. So, too, it is, that inthese resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst ofall storms, the Typhoon. It will sometimes burst from out thatcloudless sky, like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.Towards evening of that day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, andbare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directlyahead. When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with thethunder, and blazed with the lightning, that showed the disabled mastsfluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of thetempest had left for its after sport.Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; atevery flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additionaldisaster might have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubband Flask were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmerlashing of the boats. But all their pains seemed naught. Though liftedto the very top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab’s) didnot escape. A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reelingship’s high teetering side, stove in the boat’s bottom at the stern,and left it again, all dripping through like a sieve.“Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck,” said Stubb, regarding the wreck,“but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can’t fight it. Yousee, Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps,all round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me,all the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. Butnever mind; it’s all in fun: so the old song says;”—(sings.) Oh! jolly is the gale, And a joker is the whale, A’ flourishin’ his tail,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh! The scud all a flyin’, That’s his flip only foamin’; When he stirs in the spicin’,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh! Thunder splits the ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin’ of this flip,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!“Avast Stubb,” cried Starbuck, “let the Typhoon sing, and strike hisharp here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt holdthy peace.”“But I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward;and I sing to keep up my spirits. And I tell you what it is, Mr.Starbuck, there’s no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut mythroat. And when that’s done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for awind-up.”“Madman! look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own.”“What! how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, nevermind how foolish?”“Here!” cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing hishand towards the weather bow, “markest thou not that the gale comesfrom the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? thevery course he swung to this day noon? now mark his boat there; whereis that stove? In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand—hisstand-point is stove, man! Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thoumust!“I don’t half understand ye: what’s in the wind?”“Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way toNantucket,” soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb’squestion. “The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn itinto a fair wind that will drive us towards home. Yonder, to windward,all is blackness of doom; but to leeward, homeward—I see it lightens upthere; but not with the lightning.”At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness, followingthe flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the sameinstant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.“Who’s there?”“Old Thunder!” said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to hispivot-hole; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowedlances of fire.Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry offthe perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea someships carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water. Butas this conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end mayavoid all contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantlytowing there, it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interferingnot a little with some of the rigging, and more or less impeding thevessel’s way in the water; because of all this, the lower parts of aship’s lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally madein long slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into thechains outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.“The rods! the rods!” cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonishedto vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been dartingflambeaux, to light Ahab to his post. “Are they overboard? drop themover, fore and aft. Quick!”“Avast!” cried Ahab; “let’s have fair play here, though we be theweaker side. Yet I’ll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs andAndes, that all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Letthem be, sir.”“Look aloft!” cried Starbuck. “The corpusants! the corpusants!”All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at eachtri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each ofthe three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, likethree gigantic wax tapers before an altar.“Blast the boat! let it go!” cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashingsea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violentlyjammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. “Blast it!”—but slippingbackward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; andimmediately shifting his tone he cried—“The corpusants have mercy on usall!”To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance ofthe calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate cursesfrom the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seethingsea; but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath whenGod’s burning finger has been laid on the ship; when His “Mene, Mene,Tekel Upharsin” has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.While this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from theenchanted crew; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle, alltheir eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far awayconstellation of stars. Relieved against the ghostly light, thegigantic jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, andseemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come. The partedmouth of Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangelygleamed as if they too had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up bythe preternatural light, Queequeg’s tattooing burned like Satanic blueflames on his body.The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once morethe Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall. A momentor two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one.It was Stubb. “What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was notthe same in the song.”“No, no, it wasn’t; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and Ihope they will, still. But do they only have mercy on long faces?—havethey no bowels for a laugh? And look ye, Mr. Starbuck—but it’s too darkto look. Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a signof good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to bechock a’ block with sperm-oil, d’ye see; and so, all that sperm willwork up into the masts, like sap in a tree. Yes, our three masts willyet be as three spermaceti candles—that’s the good promise we saw.”At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb’s face slowly beginningto glimmer into sight. Glancing upwards, he cried: “See! see!” and oncemore the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubledsupernaturalness in their pallor.“The corpusants have mercy on us all,” cried Stubb, again.At the base of the mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame,the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab’s front, but with his head bowed awayfrom him; while near by, from the arched and overhanging rigging, wherethey had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of the seamen,arrested by the glare, now cohered together, and hung pendulous, like aknot of numbed wasps from a drooping, orchard twig. In variousenchanted attitudes, like the standing, or stepping, or runningskeletons in Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the deck; but alltheir eyes upcast.“Aye, aye, men!” cried Ahab. “Look up at it; mark it well; the whiteflame but lights the way to the White Whale! Hand me those mainmastlinks there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat againstit; blood against fire! So.”Then turning—the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his footupon the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm,he stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.“Oh! thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persianonce did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, thatto this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and Inow know that thy right worship is defiance. To neither love norreverence wilt thou be kind; and e’en for hate thou canst but kill; andall are killed. No fearless fool now fronts thee. I own thy speechless,placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life willdispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In the midst ofthe personified impersonal, a personality stands here. Though but apoint at best; whencesoe’er I came; wheresoe’er I go; yet while Iearthly live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royalrights. But war is pain, and hate is woe. Come in thy lowest form oflove, and I will kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as meresupernal power; and though thou launchest navies of full-freightedworlds, there’s that in here that still remains indifferent. Oh, thouclear spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a true child offire, I breathe it back to thee.”[Sudden, repeated flashes of lightning; the nine flames leaplengthwise to thrice their previous height; Ahab, with the rest, closeshis eyes, his right hand pressed hard upon them.]“I own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so? Nor was it wrungfrom me; nor do I now drop these links. Thou canst blind; but I canthen grope. Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes. Take thehomage of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands. I would not take it. Thelightning flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; mywhole beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunningground. Oh, oh! Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee. Light thoughthou be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out oflight, leaping out of thee! The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not?There burn the flames! Oh, thou magnanimous! now I do glory in mygenealogy. But thou art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I knownot. Oh, cruel! what hast thou done with her? There lies my puzzle; butthine is greater. Thou knowest not how came ye, hence callest thyselfunbegotten; certainly knowest not thy beginning, hence callest thyselfunbegun. I know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thouomnipotent. There is some unsuffusing thing beyond thee, thou clearspirit, to whom all thy eternity is but time, all thy creativenessmechanical. Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimlysee it. Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou too hastthy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief. Here again withhaughty agony, I read my sire. Leap! leap up, and lick the sky! I leapwith thee; I burn with thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyinglyI worship thee!”“The boat! the boat!” cried Starbuck, “look at thy boat, old man!”Ahab’s harpoon, the one forged at Perth’s fire, remained firmly lashedin its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat’sbow; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leathersheath to drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came alevelled flame of pale, forked fire. As the silent harpoon burned therelike a serpent’s tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm—“God, God isagainst thee, old man; forbear! ’tis an ill voyage! ill begun, illcontinued; let me square the yards, while we may, old man, and make afair wind of it homewards, to go on a better voyage than this.”Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken crew instantly ran to thebraces—though not a sail was left aloft. For the moment all the aghastmate’s thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half mutinous cry. Butdashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and snatching theburning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them; swearing totransfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope’s end.Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dartthat he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:—“All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; andheart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that yemay know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow outthe last fear!” And with one blast of his breath he extinguished theflame.As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood ofsome lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render itso much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark forthunderbolts; so at those last words of Ahab’s many of the mariners didrun from him in a terror of dismay.CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.Ahab standing by the helm. Starbuck approaching him.“We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is workingloose and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?”“Strike nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I’d sway them upnow.”“Sir!—in God’s name!—sir?”“Well.”“The anchors are working, sir. Shall I get them inboard?”“Strike nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything. The wind rises,but it has not got up to my table-lands yet. Quick, and see to it.—Bymasts and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of somecoasting smack. Send down my main-top-sail yard! Ho, gluepots! Loftiesttrucks were made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine nowsails amid the cloud-scud. Shall I strike that? Oh, none but cowardssend down their brain-trucks in tempest time. What a hooroosh aloftthere! I would e’en take it for sublime, did I not know that the colicis a noisy malady. Oh, take medicine, take medicine!”CHAPTER 121. Midnight.—The Forecastle Bulwarks.Stubb and Flask mounted on them, and passing additional lashings overthe anchors there hanging.“No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please, butyou will never pound into me what you were just now saying. And howlong ago is it since you said the very contrary? Didn’t you once saythat whatever ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extraon its insurance policy, just as though it were loaded with powderbarrels aft and boxes of lucifers forward? Stop, now; didn’t you sayso?”“Well, suppose I did? What then? I’ve part changed my flesh since thattime, why not my mind? Besides, supposing we are loaded with powderbarrels aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers getafire in this drenching spray here? Why, my little man, you have prettyred hair, but you couldn’t get afire now. Shake yourself; you’reAquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coatcollar. Don’t you see, then, that for these extra risks the MarineInsurance companies have extra guarantees? Here are hydrants, Flask.But hark, again, and I’ll answer ye the other thing. First take yourleg off from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass therope; now listen. What’s the mighty difference between holding a mast’slightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn’tgot any lightning-rod at all in a storm? Don’t you see, youtimber-head, that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless themast is first struck? What are you talking about, then? Not one ship ina hundred carries rods, and Ahab,—aye, man, and all of us,—were in nomore danger then, in my poor opinion, than all the crews in tenthousand ships now sailing the seas. Why, you King-Post, you, I supposeyou would have every man in the world go about with a smalllightning-rod running up the corner of his hat, like a militiaofficer’s skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash. Whydon’t ye be sensible, Flask? it’s easy to be sensible; why don’t ye,then? any man with half an eye can be sensible.”“I don’t know that, Stubb. You sometimes find it rather hard.”“Yes, when a fellow’s soaked through, it’s hard to be sensible, that’sa fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch theturn there, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down these anchorsnow as if they were never going to be used again. Tying these twoanchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man’s hands behind him. Andwhat big generous hands they are, to be sure. These are your ironfists, hey? What a hold they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether theworld is anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon longcable, though. There, hammer that knot down, and we’ve done. So; nextto touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory. I say,just wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye. They laugh atlong-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a long tailed coat ought alwaysto be worn in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way,serve to carry off the water, d’ye see. Same with cocked hats; thecocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets andtarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down abeaver; so. Halloa! whew! there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord,Lord, that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly!This is a nasty night, lad.”CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.—Thunder and Lightning.The main-top-sail yard.—Tashtego passing new lashings around it.“Um, um, um. Stop that thunder! Plenty too much thunder up here. What’sthe use of thunder? Um, um, um. We don’t want thunder; we want rum;give us a glass of rum. Um, um, um!”CHAPTER 123. The Musket.During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the Pequod’sjaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck byits spasmodic motions, even though preventer tackles had been attachedto it—for they were slack—because some play to the tiller wasindispensable.In a severe gale like this, while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecockto the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in thecompasses, at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with thePequod’s; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to noticethe whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is asight that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwontedemotion.Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through thestrenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb—one engaged forward and theother aft—the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sailswere cut adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, likethe feathers of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the windswhen that storm-tossed bird is on the wing.The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and astorm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went throughthe water with some precision again; and the course—for the present,East-south-east—which he was to steer, if practicable, was once moregiven to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had onlysteered according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing theship as near her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile,lo! a good sign! the wind seemed coming round astern; aye, the foulbreeze became fair!Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of “Ho! the fairwind! oh-ye-ho, cheerly men!” the crew singing for joy, that sopromising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portentspreceding it.In compliance with the standing order of his commander—to reportimmediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decidedchange in the affairs of the deck,—Starbuck had no sooner trimmed theyards to the breeze—however reluctantly and gloomily,—than hemechanically went below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.Ere knocking at his state-room, he involuntarily paused before it amoment. The cabin lamp—taking long swings this way and that—was burningfitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man’s bolted door,—athin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper panels. Theisolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming silenceto reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of theelements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, asthey stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was anhonest, upright man; but out of Starbuck’s heart, at that instant whenhe saw the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but soblent with its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant hehardly knew it for itself.“He would have shot me once,” he murmured, “yes, there’s the verymusket that he pointed at me;—that one with the studded stock; let metouch it—lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadlylances, strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye,aye; and powder in the pan;—that’s not good. Best spill it?—wait. I’llcure myself of this. I’ll hold the musket boldly while I think.—I cometo report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death anddoom,—that’s fair for Moby Dick. It’s a fair wind that’s only fairfor that accursed fish.—The very tube he pointed at me!—the very one;this one—I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thingI handle now.—Aye and he would fain kill all his crew. Does he not sayhe will not strike his spars to any gale? Has he not dashed hisheavenly quadrant? and in these same perilous seas, gropes he not hisway by mere dead reckoning of the error-abounding log? and in this veryTyphoon, did he not swear that he would have no lightning-rods? Butshall this crazed old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship’scompany down to doom with him?—Yes, it would make him the wilfulmurderer of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any deadly harm;and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab havehis way. If, then, he were this instant—put aside, that crime would notbe his. Ha! is he muttering in his sleep? Yes, just there,—in there,he’s sleeping. Sleeping? aye, but still alive, and soon awake again. Ican’t withstand thee, then, old man. Not reasoning; not remonstrance;not entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest. Flatobedience to thy own flat commands, this is all thou breathest. Aye,and say’st the men have vow’d thy vow; say’st all of us are Ahabs.Great God forbid!—But is there no other way? no lawful way?—Make him aprisoner to be taken home? What! hope to wrest this old man’s livingpower from his own living hands? Only a fool would try it. Say he werepinioned even; knotted all over with ropes and hawsers; chained down toring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would be more hideous than a cagedtiger, then. I could not endure the sight; could not possibly fly hishowlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable reason would leave meon the long intolerable voyage. What, then, remains? The land ishundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest. I stand alonehere upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between meand law.—Aye, aye, ’tis so.—Is heaven a murderer when its lightningstrikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets and skintogether?—And would I be a murderer, then, if”—and slowly, stealthily,and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket’s end againstthe door.“On this level, Ahab’s hammock swings within; his head this way. Atouch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.—OhMary! Mary!—boy! boy! boy!—But if I wake thee not to death, old man,who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck’s body this day week maysink, with all the crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shallI?—The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsailsare reefed and set; she heads her course.”“Stern all! Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart at last!”Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man’stormented sleep, as if Starbuck’s voice had caused the long dumb dreamto speak.The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard’s arm against the panel;Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, heplaced the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.“He’s too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tellhim. I must see to the deck here. Thou know’st what to say.”CHAPTER 124. The Needle.Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows ofmighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod’s gurgling track, pushed her onlike giants’ palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze aboundedso, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole worldboomed before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, theinvisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place;where his bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crownedBabylonian kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as acrucible of molten gold, that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.Long maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every timethe tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned toeye the bright sun’s rays produced ahead; and when she profoundlysettled by the stern, he turned behind, and saw the sun’s rearwardplace, and how the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviatingwake.“Ha, ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea-chariotof the sun. Ho, ho! all ye nations before my prow, I bring the sun toye! Yoke on the further billows; hallo! a tandem, I drive the sea!”But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towardsthe helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.“East-sou-east, sir,” said the frightened steersman.“Thou liest!” smiting him with his clenched fist. “Heading East at thishour in the morning, and the sun astern?”Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just thenobserved by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its veryblinding palpableness must have been the cause.Thrusting his head half way into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpseof the compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almostseemed to stagger. Standing behind him Starbuck looked, and lo! the twocompasses pointed East, and the Pequod was as infallibly going West.But ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew, theold man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, “I have it! It has happenedbefore. Mr. Starbuck, last night’s thunder turned our compasses—that’sall. Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take it.”“Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir,” said the pale mate,gloomily.Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in more thanone case occurred to ships in violent storms. The magnetic energy, asdeveloped in the mariner’s needle, is, as all know, essentially onewith the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be muchmarvelled at, that such things should be. Instances where the lightninghas actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the sparsand rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still morefatal; all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the beforemagnetic steel was of no more use than an old wife’s knitting needle.But in either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers theoriginal virtue thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses beaffected, the same fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship;even were the lowermost one inserted into the kelson.Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and eyeing the transpointedcompasses, the old man, with the sharp of his extended hand, now tookthe precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that the needles wereexactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship’s course to bechanged accordingly. The yards were hard up; and once more the Pequodthrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed fairone had only been juggling her.Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret thoughts, Starbuck saidnothing, but quietly he issued all requisite orders; while Stubb andFlask—who in some small degree seemed then to be sharing hisfeelings—likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though someof them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fearof Fate. But as ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almostwholly unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certainmagnetism shot into their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab’s.For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. Butchancing to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed coppersight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck.“Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun’s pilot! yesterday I wreckedthee, and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. ButAhab is lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck—a lance withouta pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker’s needles.Quick!”Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now aboutto do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been torevive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in amatter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses. Besides, the oldman well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though clumsilypracticable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitioussailors, without some shudderings and evil portents.“Men,” said he, steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed himthe things he had demanded, “my men, the thunder turned old Ahab’sneedles; but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own,that will point as true as any.”Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, asthis was said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magicmight follow. But Starbuck looked away.With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of thelance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining, badehim hold it upright, without its touching the deck. Then, with themaul, after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, heplaced the blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less stronglyhammered that, several times, the mate still holding the rod as before.Then going through some small strange motions with it—whetherindispensable to the magnetizing of the steel, or merely intended toaugment the awe of the crew, is uncertain—he called for linen thread;and moving to the binnacle, slipped out the two reversed needles there,and horizontally suspended the sail-needle by its middle, over one ofthe compass-cards. At first, the steel went round and round, quiveringand vibrating at either end; but at last it settled to its place, whenAhab, who had been intently watching for this result, stepped franklyback from the binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it,exclaimed,—“Look ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of the levelloadstone! The sun is East, and that compass swears it!”One after another they peered in, for nothing but their own eyes couldpersuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they slunkaway.In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all hisfatal pride.CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the logand line had but very seldom been in use. Owing to a confident relianceupon other means of determining the vessel’s place, some merchantmen,and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heavethe log; though at the same time, and frequently more for form’s sakethan anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary slate thecourse steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate ofprogression every hour. It had been thus with the Pequod. The woodenreel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath therailing of the after bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun andwind had warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing thathung so idly. But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as hehappened to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnetscene, and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled hisfrantic oath about the level log and line. The ship was sailingplungingly; astern the billows rolled in riots.“Forward, there! Heave the log!”Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.“Take the reel, one of ye, I’ll heave.”They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship’s lee side, where thedeck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping intothe creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projectinghandle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, sostood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced tohim.Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or fortyturns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the oldManxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold tospeak.“Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet havespoiled it.”“’Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?Thou seem’st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it.”“I hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these greyhairs of mine ’tis not worth while disputing, ’specially with asuperior, who’ll ne’er confess.”“What’s that? There now’s a patched professor in Queen Nature’sgranite-founded College; but methinks he’s too subservient. Where wertthou born?”“In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir.”“Excellent! Thou’st hit the world by that.”“I know not, sir, but I was born there.”“In the Isle of Man, hey? Well, the other way, it’s good. Here’s a manfrom Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;which is sucked in—by what? Up with the reel! The dead, blind wallbutts all inquiring heads at last. Up with it! So.”The log was heaved. The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a longdragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl. Inturn, jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows, the towingresistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely.“Hold hard!”Snap! the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; thetugging log was gone.“I crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the madsea parts the log-line. But Ahab can mend all. Haul in here, Tahitian;reel up, Manxman. And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, andmend thou the line. See to it.”“There he goes now; to him nothing’s happened; but to me, the skewerseems loosening out of the middle of the world. Haul in, haul in,Tahitian! These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, anddragging slow. Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?”“Pip? whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from the whale-boat. Pip’s missing.Let’s see now if ye haven’t fished him up here, fisherman. It dragshard; I guess he’s holding on. Jerk him, Tahiti! Jerk him off; we haulin no cowards here. Ho! there’s his arm just breaking water. A hatchet!a hatchet! cut it off—we haul in no cowards here. Captain Ahab! sir,sir! here’s Pip, trying to get on board again.”“Peace, thou crazy loon,” cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.“Away from the quarter-deck!”“The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser,” muttered Ahab, advancing.“Hands off from that holiness! Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?“Astern there, sir, astern! Lo! lo!”“And who art thou, boy? I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils ofthy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls tosieve through! Who art thou, boy?”“Bell-boy, sir; ship’s-crier; ding, dong, ding! Pip! Pip! Pip! Onehundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high—lookscowardly—quickest known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip thecoward?”“There can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens!look down here. Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandonedhim, ye creative libertines. Here, boy; Ahab’s cabin shall be Pip’shome henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy;thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let’sdown.”“What’s this? here’s velvet shark-skin,” intently gazing at Ahab’shand, and feeling it. “Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thingas this, perhaps he had ne’er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as aman-rope; something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perthnow come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with thewhite, for I will not let this go.”“Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worsehorrors than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers ingods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient godsoblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing notwhat he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come!I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped anEmperor’s!”“There go two daft ones now,” muttered the old Manxman. “One daft withstrength, the other daft with weakness. But here’s the end of therotten line—all dripping, too. Mend it, eh? I think we had best have anew line altogether. I’ll see Mr. Stubb about it.”CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.Steering now south-eastward by Ahab’s levelled steel, and her progresssolely determined by Ahab’s level log and line; the Pequod held on herpath towards the Equator. Making so long a passage through suchunfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long, sidewaysimpelled by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild; allthese seemed the strange calm things preluding some riotous anddesperate scene.At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of theEquatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes beforethe dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch—thenheaded by Flask—was startled by a cry so plaintively wild andunearthly—like half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod’smurdered Innocents—that one and all, they started from their reveries,and for the space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned alltransfixedly listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wildcry remained within hearing. The Christian or civilized part of thecrew said it was mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneersremained unappalled. Yet the grey Manxman—the oldest mariner ofall—declared that the wild thrilling sounds that were heard, were thevoices of newly drowned men in the sea.Below in his hammock, Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn, when hecame to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, notunaccompanied with hinted dark meanings. He hollowly laughed, and thusexplained the wonder.Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of greatnumbers of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams, orsome dams that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship andkept company with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort ofwail. But this only the more affected some of them, because mostmariners cherish a very superstitious feeling about seals, arising notonly from their peculiar tones when in distress, but also from thehuman look of their round heads and semi-intelligent faces, seenpeeringly uprising from the water alongside. In the sea, under certaincircumstances, seals have more than once been mistaken for men.But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausibleconfirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning. Atsun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore;and whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (forsailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thuswith the man, there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he hadnot been long at his perch, when a cry was heard—a cry and arushing—and looking up, they saw a falling phantom in the air; andlooking down, a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of thesea.The life-buoy—a long slender cask—was dropped from the stern, where italways hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it,and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that itslowly filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every pore; andthe studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as if toyield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look outfor the White Whale, on the White Whale’s own peculiar ground; that manwas swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at thetime. Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, atleast as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing ofevil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged.They declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks theyhad heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to seeto it; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as inthe feverish eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of thevoyage, all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directlyconnected with its final end, whatever that might prove to be;therefore, they were going to leave the ship’s stern unprovided with abuoy, when by certain strange signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted ahint concerning his coffin.“A life-buoy of a coffin!” cried Starbuck, starting.“Rather queer, that, I should say,” said Stubb.“It will make a good enough one,” said Flask, “the carpenter here canarrange it easily.”“Bring it up; there’s nothing else for it,” said Starbuck, after amelancholy pause. “Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so—the coffin,I mean. Dost thou hear me? Rig it.”“And shall I nail down the lid, sir?” moving his hand as with a hammer.“Aye.”“And shall I caulk the seams, sir?” moving his hand as with acaulking-iron.“Aye.”“And shall I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?” moving his handas with a pitch-pot.“Away! what possesses thee to this? Make a life-buoy of the coffin, andno more.—Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me.”“He goes off in a huff. The whole he can endure; at the parts hebaulks. Now I don’t like this. I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and hewears it like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and hewon’t put his head into it. Are all my pains to go for nothing withthat coffin? And now I’m ordered to make a life-buoy of it. It’s liketurning an old coat; going to bring the flesh on the other side now. Idon’t like this cobbling sort of business—I don’t like it at all; it’sundignified; it’s not my place. Let tinkers’ brats do tinkerings; weare their betters. I like to take in hand none but clean, virgin,fair-and-square mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins atthe beginning, and is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end atthe conclusion; not a cobbler’s job, that’s at an end in the middle,and at the beginning at the end. It’s the old woman’s tricks to begiving cobbling jobs. Lord! what an affection all old women have fortinkers. I know an old woman of sixty-five who ran away with abald-headed young tinker once. And that’s the reason I never would workfor lonely widow old women ashore, when I kept my job-shop in theVineyard; they might have taken it into their lonely old heads to runoff with me. But heigh-ho! there are no caps at sea but snow-caps. Letme see. Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay over the same withpitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the snap-spring overthe ship’s stern. Were ever such things done before with a coffin? Somesuperstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied up in the rigging, erethey would do the job. But I’m made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; Idon’t budge. Cruppered with a coffin! Sailing about with a grave-yardtray! But never mind. We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads andcard-tables, as well as coffins and hearses. We work by the month, orby the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask the why and whereforeof our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling, and then we stash itif we can. Hem! I’ll do the job, now, tenderly. I’ll have me—let’ssee—how many in the ship’s company, all told? But I’ve forgotten. Anyway, I’ll have me thirty separate, Turk’s-headed life-lines, each threefeet long hanging all round to the coffin. Then, if the hull go down,there’ll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for one coffin, a sightnot seen very often beneath the sun! Come hammer, caulking-iron,pitch-pot, and marling-spike! Let’s to it.”CHAPTER 127. The Deck.The coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between the vice-bench and theopen hatchway; the Carpenter caulking its seams; the string of twistedoakum slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the bosom ofhis frock.—Ahab comes slowly from the cabin-gangway, and hears Pipfollowing him.“Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this handcomplies with my humor more genially than that boy.—Middle aisle of achurch! What’s here?”“Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck’s orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware thehatchway!”“Thank ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to the vault.”“Sir? The hatchway? oh! So it does, sir, so it does.”“Art not thou the leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thyshop?”“I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?”“Well enough. But art thou not also the undertaker?”“Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; butthey’ve set me now to turning it into something else.”“Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling,monopolising, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and thenext day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of thosesame coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of ajack-of-all-trades.”“But I do not mean anything, sir. I do as I do.”“The gods again. Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about acoffin? The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out thecraters for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade inhand. Dost thou never?”“Sing, sir? Do I sing? Oh, I’m indifferent enough, sir, for that; butthe reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because therewas none in his spade, sir. But the caulking mallet is full of it. Harkto it.”“Aye, and that’s because the lid there’s a sounding-board; and what inall things makes the sounding-board is this—there’s naught beneath. Andyet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter.Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock againstthe churchyard gate, going in?“Faith, sir, I’ve——”“Faith? What’s that?”“Why, faith, sir, it’s only a sort of exclamation-like—that’s all,sir.”“Um, um; go on.”“I was about to say, sir, that——”“Art thou a silk-worm? Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?Look at thy bosom! Despatch! and get these traps out of sight.”“He goes aft. That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hotlatitudes. I’ve heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of theGallipagos, is cut by the Equator right in the middle. Seems to me somesort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle. He’s alwaysunder the Line—fiery hot, I tell ye! He’s looking this way—come, oakum;quick. Here we go again. This wooden mallet is the cork, and I’m theprofessor of musical glasses—tap, tap!”(Ahab to himself.)“There’s a sight! There’s a sound! The greyheaded woodpecker tappingthe hollow tree! Blind and dumb might well be envied now. See! thatthing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines. A most malicious wag,that fellow. Rat-tat! So man’s seconds tick! Oh! how immaterial are allmaterials! What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts? Herenow’s the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made theexpressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life. Alife-buoy of a coffin! Does it go further? Can it be that in somespiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver!I’ll think of that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth,that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertaintwilight to me. Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursedsound? I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return again.Now, then, Pip, we’ll talk this over; I do suck most wondrousphilosophies from thee! Some unknown conduits from the unknown worldsmust empty into thee!”CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly downupon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the timethe Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as thebroad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails allfell together as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled fromthe smitten hull.“Bad news; she brings bad news,” muttered the old Manxman. But ere hercommander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere hecould hopefully hail, Ahab’s voice was heard.“Hast seen the White Whale?”“Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?”Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question;and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the strangercaptain himself, having stopped his vessel’s way, was seen descendingher side. A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched thePequod’s main-chains, and he sprang to the deck. Immediately he wasrecognised by Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew. But no formal salutationwas exchanged.“Where was he?—not killed!—not killed!” cried Ahab, closely advancing.“How was it?”It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous,while three of the stranger’s boats were engaged with a shoal ofwhales, which had led them some four or five miles from the ship; andwhile they were yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and headof Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the water, not very far toleeward; whereupon, the fourth rigged boat—a reserved one—had beeninstantly lowered in chase. After a keen sail before the wind, thisfourth boat—the swiftest keeled of all—seemed to have succeeded infastening—at least, as well as the man at the mast-head could tellanything about it. In the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat;and then a swift gleam of bubbling white water; and after that nothingmore; whence it was concluded that the stricken whale must haveindefinitely run away with his pursuers, as often happens. There wassome apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet. The recall signalswere placed in the rigging; darkness came on; and forced to pick up herthree far to windward boats—ere going in quest of the fourth one in theprecisely opposite direction—the ship had not only been necessitated toleave that boat to its fate till near midnight, but, for the time, toincrease her distance from it. But the rest of her crew being at lastsafe aboard, she crowded all sail—stunsail on stunsail—after themissing boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots for a beacon; and everyother man aloft on the look-out. But though when she had thus sailed asufficient distance to gain the presumed place of the absent ones whenlast seen; though she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull allaround her; and not finding anything, had again dashed on; againpaused, and lowered her boats; and though she had thus continued doingtill daylight; yet not the least glimpse of the missing keel had beenseen.The story told, the stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal hisobject in boarding the Pequod. He desired that ship to unite with hisown in the search; by sailing over the sea some four or five milesapart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping a double horizon, as it were.“I will wager something now,” whispered Stubb to Flask, “that some onein that missing boat wore off that Captain’s best coat; mayhap, hiswatch—he’s so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of twopious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the heightof the whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks—pale inthe very buttons of his eyes—look—it wasn’t the coat—it must have beenthe—”“My boy, my own boy is among them. For God’s sake—I beg, Iconjure”—here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far hadbut icily received his petition. “For eight-and-forty hours let mecharter your ship—I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it—ifthere be no other way—for eight-and-forty hours only—only that—youmust, oh, you must, and you shall do this thing.”“His son!” cried Stubb, “oh, it’s his son he’s lost! I take back thecoat and watch—what says Ahab? We must save that boy.”“He’s drowned with the rest on ’em, last night,” said the old Manxsailor standing behind them; “I heard; all of ye heard their spirits.”Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the Rachel’sthe more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of theCaptain’s sons among the number of the missing boat’s crew; but amongthe number of the other boat’s crews, at the same time, but on theother hand, separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of thechase, there had been still another son; as that for a time, thewretched father was plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity;which was only solved for him by his chief mate’s instinctivelyadopting the ordinary procedure of a whale-ship in such emergencies,that is, when placed between jeopardized but divided boats, always topick up the majority first. But the captain, for some unknownconstitutional reason, had refrained from mentioning all this, and nottill forced to it by Ahab’s iciness did he allude to his one yetmissing boy; a little lad, but twelve years old, whose father with theearnest but unmisgiving hardihood of a Nantucketer’s paternal love, hadthus early sought to initiate him in the perils and wonders of avocation almost immemorially the destiny of all his race. Nor does itunfrequently occur, that Nantucket captains will send a son of suchtender age away from them, for a protracted three or four years’ voyagein some other ship than their own; so that their first knowledge of awhaleman’s career shall be unenervated by any chance display of afather’s natural but untimely partiality, or undue apprehensiveness andconcern.Meantime, now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab;and Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but withoutthe least quivering of his own.“I will not go,” said the stranger, “till you say aye to me. Do to meas you would have me do to you in the like case. For you too have aboy, Captain Ahab—though but a child, and nestling safely at home now—achild of your old age too—Yes, yes, you relent; I see it—run, run, men,now, and stand by to square in the yards.”“Avast,” cried Ahab—“touch not a rope-yarn”; then in a voice thatprolongingly moulded every word—“Captain Gardiner, I will not do it.Even now I lose time. Good-bye, good-bye. God bless ye, man, and may Iforgive myself, but I must go. Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnaclewatch, and in three minutes from this present instant warn off allstrangers: then brace forward again, and let the ship sail as before.”Hurriedly turning, with averted face, he descended into his cabin,leaving the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utterrejection of his so earnest suit. But starting from his enchantment,Gardiner silently hurried to the side; more fell than stepped into hisboat, and returned to his ship.Soon the two ships diverged their wakes; and long as the strange vesselwas in view, she was seen to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot,however small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swunground; starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beatagainst a head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all thewhile, her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as threetall cherry trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs.But by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainlysaw that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained withoutcomfort. She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they werenot.CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.(Ahab moving to go on deck; Pip catches him by the hand to follow.)“Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour iscoming when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have theeby him. There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to mymalady. Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my mostdesired health. Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee,as if thou wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my ownscrewed chair; another screw to it, thou must be.”“No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me foryour one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remaina part of ye.”“Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadelessfidelity of man!—and a black! and crazy!—but methinks like-cures-likeapplies to him too; he grows so sane again.”“They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whosedrowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin.But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go withye.”“If thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab’s purpose keels up in him.I tell thee no; it cannot be.”“Oh good master, master, master!“Weep so, and I will murder thee! have a care, for Ahab too is mad.Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and stillknow that I am there. And now I quit thee. Thy hand!—Met! True artthou, lad, as the circumference to its centre. So: God for ever blessthee; and if it come to that,—God for ever save thee, let what willbefall.”(Ahab goes; Pip steps one step forward.)“Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air,—but I’m alone. Nowwere even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he’s missing. Pip! Pip!Ding, dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip? He must be up here; let’s try thedoor. What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there’s no openingit. It must be the spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told methis screwed chair was mine. Here, then, I’ll seat me, against thetransom, in the ship’s full middle, all her keel and her three mastsbefore me. Here, our old sailors say, in their black seventy-foursgreat admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows ofcaptains and lieutenants. Ha! what’s this? epaulets! epaulets! theepaulets all come crowding! Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye;fill up, monsieurs! What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy’s hostto white men with gold lace upon their coats!—Monsieurs, have ye seenone Pip?—a little negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, andcowardly! Jumped from a whale-boat once;—seen him? No! Well then, fillup again, captains, and let’s drink shame upon all cowards! I name nonames. Shame upon them! Put one foot upon the table. Shame upon allcowards.—Hist! above there, I hear ivory—Oh, master! master! I amindeed down-hearted when you walk over me. But here I’ll stay, thoughthis stern strikes rocks; and they bulge through; and oysters come tojoin me.”CHAPTER 130. The Hat.And now that at the proper time and place, after so long and wide apreliminary cruise, Ahab,—all other whaling waters swept—seemed to havechased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more securely there;now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and longitudewhere his tormenting wound had been inflicted; now that a vessel hadbeen spoken which on the very day preceding had actually encounteredMoby Dick;—and now that all his successive meetings with various shipscontrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference with whichthe white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned against;now it was that there lurked a something in the old man’s eyes, whichit was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsettingpolar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months’ nightsustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab’s purpose nowfixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. Itdomineered above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings,fears, were fain to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth asingle spear or leaf.In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural,vanished. Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no morestrove to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemedground to finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clampedmortar of Ahab’s iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about thedeck, ever conscious that the old man’s despot eye was on them.But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; whenhe thought no glance but one was on him; then you would have seen thateven as Ahab’s eyes so awed the crew’s, the inscrutable Parsee’s glanceawed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it.Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallahnow; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked dubiousat him; half uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a mortalsubstance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseenbeing’s body. And that shadow was always hovering there. For not bynight, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or gobelow. He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wanbut wondrous eyes did plainly say—We two watchmen never rest.Nor, at any time, by night or day could the mariners now step upon thedeck, unless Ahab was before them; either standing in his pivot-hole,or exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits,—themain-mast and the mizen; or else they saw him standing in thecabin-scuttle,—his living foot advanced upon the deck, as if to step;his hat slouched heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless hestood, however the days and nights were added on, that he had not swungin his hammock; yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, they could nevertell unerringly whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed attimes; or whether he was still intently scanning them; no matter,though he stood so in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, andthe unheeded night-damp gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carvedcoat and hat. The clothes that the night had wet, the next day’ssunshine dried upon him; and so, day after day, and night after night;he went no more beneath the planks; whatever he wanted from the cabinthat thing he sent for.He ate in the same open air; that is, his two only meals,—breakfast anddinner: supper he never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darklygrew all gnarled, as unearthed roots of trees blown over, which stillgrow idly on at naked base, though perished in the upper verdure. Butthough his whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though theParsee’s mystic watch was without intermission as his own; yet thesetwo never seemed to speak—one man to the other—unless at long intervalssome passing unmomentous matter made it necessary. Though such a potentspell seemed secretly to join the twain; openly, and to the awe-struckcrew, they seemed pole-like asunder. If by day they chanced to speakone word; by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned theslightest verbal interchange. At times, for longest hours, without asingle hail, they stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in hisscuttle, the Parsee by the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon eachother; as if in the Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab theParsee his abandoned substance.And yet, somehow, did Ahab—in his own proper self, as daily, hourly,and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,—Ahabseemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again bothseemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the leanshade siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib andkeel was solid Ahab.At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heardfrom aft,—“Man the mast-heads!”—and all through the day, till aftersunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the strikingof the helmsman’s bell, was heard—“What d’ye see?—sharp! sharp!”But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting thechildren-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniacold man seemed distrustful of his crew’s fidelity; at least, of nearlyall except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whetherStubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. Butif these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained fromverbally expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.“I will have the first sight of the whale myself,”—he said. “Aye! Ahabmust have the doubloon!” and with his own hands he rigged a nest ofbasketed bowlines; and sending a hand aloft, with a single sheavedblock, to secure to the main-mast head, he received the two ends of thedownward-reeved rope; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pinfor the other end, in order to fasten it at the rail. This done, withthat end yet in his hand and standing beside the pin, he looked roundupon his crew, sweeping from one to the other; pausing his glance longupon Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning Fedallah; and thensettling his firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said,—“Take therope, sir—I give it into thy hands, Starbuck.” Then arranging hisperson in the basket, he gave the word for them to hoist him to hisperch, Starbuck being the one who secured the rope at last; andafterwards stood near it. And thus, with one hand clinging round theroyal mast, Ahab gazed abroad upon the sea for miles and miles,—ahead,astern, this side, and that,—within the wide expanded circle commandedat so great a height.When in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place inthe rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea ishoisted up to that spot, and sustained there by the rope; under thesecircumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given in strictcharge to some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in sucha wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relationsaloft cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them atthe deck; and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every fewminutes cast down from the fastenings, it would be but a naturalfatality, if, unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailorshould by some carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall allswooping to the sea. So Ahab’s proceedings in this matter were notunusual; the only strange thing about them seemed to be, that Starbuck,almost the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose him withanything in the slightest degree approaching to decision—one of thosetoo, whose faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubtsomewhat;—it was strange, that this was the very man he should selectfor his watchman; freely giving his whole life into such an otherwisedistrusted person’s hands.Now, the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there tenminutes; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often flyincommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in theselatitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round hishead in a maze of untrackably swift circlings. Then it darted athousand feet straight up into the air; then spiralized downwards, andwent eddying again round his head.But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemednot to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have markedit much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the leastheedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost everysight.“Your hat, your hat, sir!” suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, whobeing posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, thoughsomewhat lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividingthem.But already the sable wing was before the old man’s eyes; the longhooked bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away withhis prize.An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin’s head, removing his cap to replaceit, and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would beking of Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omenaccounted good. Ahab’s hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew onand on with it; far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared;while from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot wasdimly discerned, falling from that vast height into the sea.CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.The intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; thelife-buoy-coffin still lightly swung; and another ship, most miserablymisnamed the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes werefixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in somewhaling-ships, cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or ninefeet; serving to carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.Upon the stranger’s shears were beheld the shattered, white ribs, andsome few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but younow saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled,half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.“Hast seen the White Whale?”“Look!” replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and withhis trumpet he pointed to the wreck.“Hast killed him?”“The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that,” answered theother, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whosegathered sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together.“Not forged!” and snatching Perth’s levelled iron from the crotch, Ahabheld it out, exclaiming—“Look ye, Nantucketer; here in this hand I holdhis death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are thesebarbs; and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind thefin, where the White Whale most feels his accursed life!”“Then God keep thee, old man—see’st thou that”—pointing to thehammock—“I bury but one of five stout men, who were alive onlyyesterday; but were dead ere night. Only that one I bury; the restwere buried before they died; you sail upon their tomb.” Then turningto his crew—“Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, andlift the body; so, then—Oh! God”—advancing towards the hammock withuplifted hands—“may the resurrection and the life——”“Brace forward! Up helm!” cried Ahab like lightning to his men.But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape thesound of the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; notso quick, indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might havesprinkled her hull with their ghostly baptism.As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the strange life-buoyhanging at the Pequod’s stern came into conspicuous relief.“Ha! yonder! look yonder, men!” cried a foreboding voice in her wake.“In vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us yourtaffrail to show us your coffin!”CHAPTER 132. The Symphony.It was a clear steel-blue day. The firmaments of air and sea werehardly separable in that all-pervading azure; only, the pensive air wastransparently pure and soft, with a woman’s look, and the robust andman-like sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells, as Samson’schest in his sleep.Hither, and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small,unspeckled birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air;but to and fro in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushedmighty leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong,troubled, murderous thinkings of the masculine sea.But though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades andshadows without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were,that distinguished them.Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentleair to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at thegirdling line of the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion—most seenhere at the equator—denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the lovingalarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom away.Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firmand unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in theashes of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of themorn; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl’sforehead of heaven.Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible wingedcreatures that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! howoblivious were ye of old Ahab’s close-coiled woe! But so have I seenlittle Miriam and Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol aroundtheir old sire; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew onthe marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain.Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the sideand watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, themore and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But thelovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for amoment, the cankerous thing in his soul. That glad, happy air, thatwinsome sky, did at last stroke and caress him; the step-mother world,so long cruel—forbidding—now threw affectionate arms round his stubbornneck, and did seem to joyously sob over him, as if over one, thathowever wilful and erring, she could yet find it in her heart to saveand to bless. From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear intothe sea; nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one weedrop.Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side;and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbingthat stole out of the centre of the serenity around. Careful not totouch him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stoodthere.Ahab turned.“Starbuck!”“Sir.”“Oh, Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky. On sucha day—very much such a sweetness as this—I struck my first whale—aboy-harpooneer of eighteen! Forty—forty—forty years ago!—ago! Fortyyears of continual whaling! forty years of privation, and peril, andstorm-time! forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahabforsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrorsof the deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have notspent three ashore. When I think of this life I have led; thedesolation of solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of aCaptain’s exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to anysympathy from the green country without—oh, weariness! heaviness!Guinea-coast slavery of solitary command!—when I think of all this;only half-suspected, not so keenly known to me before—and how for fortyyears I have fed upon dry salted fare—fit emblem of the dry nourishmentof my soil!—when the poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his dailyhand, and broken the world’s fresh bread to my mouldy crusts—away,whole oceans away, from that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, andsailed for Cape Horn the next day, leaving but one dent in my marriagepillow—wife? wife?—rather a widow with her husband alive! Aye, Iwidowed that poor girl when I married her, Starbuck; and then, themadness, the frenzy, the boiling blood and the smoking brow, withwhich, for a thousand lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foaminglychased his prey—more a demon than a man!—aye, aye! what a forty years’fool—fool—old fool, has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the chase?why weary, and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance?how the richer or better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it nothard, that with this weary load I bear, one poor leg should have beensnatched from under me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me,that I seem to weep. Locks so grey did never grow but from out someashes! But do I look very old, so very, very old, Starbuck? I feeldeadly faint, bowed, and humped, as though I were Adam, staggeringbeneath the piled centuries since Paradise. God! God! God!—crack myheart!—stave my brain!—mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of greyhairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thusintolerably old? Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into ahuman eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than togaze upon God. By the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this isthe magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no;stay on board, on board!—lower not when I do; when branded Ahab giveschase to Moby Dick. That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not withthe far away home I see in that eye!”“Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all!why should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let usfly these deadly waters! let us home! Wife and child, too, areStarbuck’s—wife and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellowyouth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving,longing, paternal old age! Away! let us away!—this instant let me alterthe course! How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowlon our way to see old Nantucket again! I think, sir, they have somesuch mild blue days, even as this, in Nantucket.”“They have, they have. I have seen them—some summer days in themorning. About this time—yes, it is his noon nap now—the boyvivaciously wakes; sits up in bed; and his mother tells him of me, ofcannibal old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come backto dance him again.”“’Tis my Mary, my Mary herself! She promised that my boy, everymorning, should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse ofhis father’s sail! Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head forNantucket! Come, my Captain, study out the course, and let us away!See, see! the boy’s face from the window! the boy’s hand on the hill!”But Ahab’s glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he shook, andcast his last, cindered apple to the soil.“What is it, what nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; whatcozening, hidden lord and master, and cruel, remorseless emperorcommands me; that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keeppushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on all the time; recklesslymaking me ready to do what in my own proper, natural heart, I durst notso much as dare? Is Ahab, Ahab? Is it I, God, or who, that lifts thisarm? But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an errand-boyin heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisiblepower; how then can this one small heart beat; this one small brainthink thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, doesthat living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and roundin this world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike. And allthe time, lo! that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea! Look! see yonAlbicore! who put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish? Wheredo murderers go, man! Who’s to doom, when the judge himself is draggedto the bar? But it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; andthe air smells now, as if it blew from a far-away meadow; they havebeen making hay somewhere under the slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, andthe mowers are sleeping among the new-mown hay. Sleeping? Aye, toil wehow we may, we all sleep at last on the field. Sleep? Aye, and rustamid greenness; as last year’s scythes flung down, and left in thehalf-cut swaths—Starbuck!”But blanched to a corpse’s hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started attwo reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlesslyleaning over the same rail.CHAPTER 133. The Chase—First Day.That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man—as his wont atintervals—stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and wentto his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffingup the sea air as a sagacious ship’s dog will, in drawing nigh to somebarbarous isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon thatpeculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the livingsperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any marinersurprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane,and then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly aspossible, Ahab rapidly ordered the ship’s course to be slightlyaltered, and the sail to be shortened.The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicatedat daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly andlengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated waterywrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swifttide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.“Man the mast-heads! Call all hands!”Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastledeck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that theyseemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appearwith their clothes in their hands.“What d’ye see?” cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky.“Nothing, nothing sir!” was the sound hailing down in reply.“T’gallant sails!—stunsails! alow and aloft, and on both sides!”All sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved forswaying him to the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they werehoisting him thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft, andwhile peering ahead through the horizontal vacancy between themain-top-sail and top-gallant-sail, he raised a gull-like cry in theair. “There she blows!—there she blows! A hump like a snow-hill! It isMoby Dick!”Fired by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the threelook-outs, the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famouswhale they had so long been pursuing. Ahab had now gained his finalperch, some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego standing justbeneath him on the cap of the top-gallant-mast, so that the Indian’shead was almost on a level with Ahab’s heel. From this height the whalewas now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealinghis high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout intothe air. To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout theyhad so long ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans.“And did none of ye see it before?” cried Ahab, hailing the perched menall around him.“I saw him almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and Icried out,” said Tashtego.“Not the same instant; not the same—no, the doubloon is mine, Fatereserved the doubloon for me. I only; none of ye could have raisedthe White Whale first. There she blows!—there she blows!—there sheblows! There again!—there again!” he cried, in long-drawn, lingering,methodic tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale’svisible jets. “He’s going to sound! In stunsails! Downtop-gallant-sails! Stand by three boats. Mr. Starbuck, remember, stayon board, and keep the ship. Helm there! Luff, luff a point! So;steady, man, steady! There go flukes! No, no; only black water! Allready the boats there? Stand by, stand by! Lower me, Mr. Starbuck;lower, lower,—quick, quicker!” and he slid through the air to the deck.“He is heading straight to leeward, sir,” cried Stubb, “right away fromus; cannot have seen the ship yet.”“Be dumb, man! Stand by the braces! Hard down the helm!—brace up!Shiver her!—shiver her!—So; well that! Boats, boats!”Soon all the boats but Starbuck’s were dropped; all the boat-sailsset—all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting toleeward; and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit upFedallah’s sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea;but only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grewstill more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed anoon-meadow, so serenely it spread. At length the breathless huntercame so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzlinghump was distinctly visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolatedthing, and continually set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy,greenish foam. He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightlyprojecting head beyond. Before it, far out on the soft Turkish-ruggedwaters, went the glistening white shadow from his broad, milkyforehead, a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade; andbehind, the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the movingvalley of his steady wake; and on either hand bright bubbles arose anddanced by his side. But these were broken again by the light toes ofhundreds of gay fowl softly feathering the sea, alternate with theirfitful flight; and like to some flag-staff rising from the painted hullof an argosy, the tall but shattered pole of a recent lance projectedfrom the white whale’s back; and at intervals one of the cloud ofsoft-toed fowls hovering, and to and fro skimming like a canopy overthe fish, silently perched and rocked on this pole, the long tailfeathers streaming like pennons.A gentle joyousness—a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, investedthe gliding whale. Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away withravished Europa clinging to his graceful horns; his lovely, leeringeyes sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth bewitching fleetness,rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not thatgreat majesty Supreme! did surpass the glorified White Whale as he sodivinely swam.On each soft side—coincident with the parted swell, that but onceleaving him, then flowed so wide away—on each bright side, the whaleshed off enticings. No wonder there had been some among the hunters whonamelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had venturedto assail it; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture oftornadoes. Yet calm, enticing calm, oh, whale! thou glidest on, to allwho for the first time eye thee, no matter how many in that same waythou may’st have bejuggled and destroyed before.And thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea, amongwaves whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, MobyDick moved on, still withholding from sight the full terrors of hissubmerged trunk, entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw.But soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for aninstant his whole marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia’sNatural Bridge, and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air,the grand god revealed himself, sounded, and went out of sight.Hoveringly halting, and dipping on the wing, the white sea-fowlslongingly lingered over the agitated pool that he left.With oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails adrift,the three boats now stilly floated, awaiting Moby Dick’s reappearance.“An hour,” said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat’s stern; and he gazedbeyond the whale’s place, towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooingvacancies to leeward. It was only an instant; for again his eyes seemedwhirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle. The breezenow freshened; the sea began to swell.“The birds!—the birds!” cried Tashtego.In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds were nowall flying towards Ahab’s boat; and when within a few yards beganfluttering over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous,expectant cries. Their vision was keener than man’s; Ahab coulddiscover no sign in the sea. But suddenly as he peered down and downinto its depths, he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than awhite weasel, with wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as itrose, till it turned, and then there were plainly revealed two longcrooked rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from theundiscoverable bottom. It was Moby Dick’s open mouth and scrolled jaw;his vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea.The glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marbletomb; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirledthe craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling uponFedallah to change places with him, went forward to the bows, andseizing Perth’s harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars andstand by to stern.Now, by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis,its bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale’s head while yetunder water. But as if perceiving this stratagem, Moby Dick, with thatmalicious intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplantedhimself, as it were, in an instant, shooting his pleated headlengthwise beneath the boat.Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled foran instant, the whale obliquely lying on his back, in the manner of abiting shark, slowly and feelingly taking its bows full within hismouth, so that the long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw curled high up intothe open air, and one of the teeth caught in a row-lock. The bluishpearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab’shead, and reached higher than that. In this attitude the White Whalenow shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse. Withunastonished eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but thetiger-yellow crew were tumbling over each other’s heads to gain theuttermost stern.And now, while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as thewhale dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from hisbody being submerged beneath the boat, he could not be darted at fromthe bows, for the bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and whilethe other boats involuntarily paused, as before a quick crisisimpossible to withstand, then it was that monomaniac Ahab, furious withthis tantalizing vicinity of his foe, which placed him all alive andhelpless in the very jaws he hated; frenzied with all this, he seizedthe long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to wrench it fromits gripe. As now he thus vainly strove, the jaw slipped from him; thefrail gunwales bent in, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws, like anenormous shears, sliding further aft, bit the craft completely intwain, and locked themselves fast again in the sea, midway between thetwo floating wrecks. These floated aside, the broken ends drooping, thecrew at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales, and striving to holdfast to the oars to lash them across.At that preluding moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the firstto perceive the whale’s intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, amovement that loosed his hold for the time; at that moment his hand hadmade one final effort to push the boat out of the bite. But onlyslipping further into the whale’s mouth, and tilting over sideways asit slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw; spilled himout of it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell flat-faced upon thesea.Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now lay at a littledistance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in thebillows; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body;so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose—some twenty or more feetout of the water—the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves,dazzlingly broke against it; vindictively tossing their shivered spraystill higher into the air.* So, in a gale, the but half baffled Channelbillows only recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly tooverleap its summit with their scud.*This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives itsdesignation (pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminaryup-and-down poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise calledpitchpoling, previously described. By this motion the whale must bestand most comprehensively view whatever objects may be encircling him.But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam swiftly roundand round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengefulwake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadlyassault. The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as theblood of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus’s elephants in thebook of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of thewhale’s insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,—though hecould still keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that;helpless Ahab’s head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the leastchance shock might burst. From the boat’s fragmentary stern, Fedallahincuriously and mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the otherdrifting end, could not succor him; more than enough was it for them tolook to themselves. For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale’saspect, and so planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made,that he seemed horizontally swooping upon them. And though the otherboats, unharmed, still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull intothe eddy to strike, lest that should be the signal for the instantdestruction of the jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in thatcase could they themselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, then,they remained on the outer edge of the direful zone, whose centre hadnow become the old man’s head.Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship’smast heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene;and was now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her!—“Sail onthe”—but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, andwhelmed him for the time. But struggling out of it again, and chancingto rise on a towering crest, he shouted,—“Sail on the whale!—Drive himoff!”The Pequod’s prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle,she effectually parted the white whale from his victim. As he sullenlyswam off, the boats flew to the rescue.Dragged into Stubb’s boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the whitebrine caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab’s bodilystrength did crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body’s doom: for atime, lying all crushed in the bottom of Stubb’s boat, like one troddenunder foot of herds of elephants. Far inland, nameless wails came fromhim, as desolate sounds from out ravines.But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the moreabbreviate it. In an instant’s compass, great hearts sometimes condenseto one deep pang, the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffusedthrough feebler men’s whole lives. And so, such hearts, though summaryin each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it, in their life-timeaggregate a whole age of woe, wholly made up of instantaneousintensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble naturescontain the entire circumferences of inferior souls.“The harpoon,” said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning onone bended arm—“is it safe?”“Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it,” said Stubb, showing it.“Lay it before me;—any missing men?”“One, two, three, four, five;—there were five oars, sir, and here arefive men.”“That’s good.—Help me, man; I wish to stand. So, so, I see him! there!there! going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!—Hands off from me!The eternal sap runs up in Ahab’s bones again! Set the sail; out oars;the helm!”It is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being pickedup by another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase isthus continued with what is called double-banked oars. It was thus now.But the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of thewhale, for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming witha velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under thesecircumstances, pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitelyprolonged, if not a hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so longa period, such an unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thingbarely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself,then, as it sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediatemeans of overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her,and were soon swayed up to their cranes—the two parts of the wreckedboat having been previously secured by her—and then hoisting everythingto her side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sidewaysoutstretching it with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of analbatross; the Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. Atthe well known, methodic intervals, the whale’s glittering spout wasregularly announced from the manned mast-heads; and when he would bereported as just gone down, Ahab would take the time, and then pacingthe deck, binnacle-watch in hand, so soon as the last second of theallotted hour expired, his voice was heard.—“Whose is the doubloon now?D’ye see him?” and if the reply was, No, sir! straightway he commandedthem to lift him to his perch. In this way the day wore on; Ahab, nowaloft and motionless; anon, unrestingly pacing the planks.As he was thus walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the menaloft, or to bid them hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to astill greater breadth—thus to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat,at every turn he passed his own wrecked boat, which had been droppedupon the quarter-deck, and lay there reversed; broken bow to shatteredstern. At last he paused before it; and as in an already over-cloudedsky fresh troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over the oldman’s face there now stole some such added gloom as this.Stubb saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, toevince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place inhis Captain’s mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed—“Thethistle the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha! ha!”“What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck? Man, man! didI not know thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I couldswear thou wert a poltroon. Groan nor laugh should be heard before awreck.”“Aye, sir,” said Starbuck drawing near, “’tis a solemn sight; an omen,and an ill one.”“Omen? omen?—the dictionary! If the gods think to speak outright toman, they will honorably speak outright; not shake their heads, andgive an old wives’ darkling hint.—Begone! Ye two are the opposite polesof one thing; Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and yetwo are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of thepeopled earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors! Cold, cold—I shiver!—Hownow? Aloft there! D’ye see him? Sing out for every spout, though hespout ten times a second!”The day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling.Soon, it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset.“Can’t see the spout now, sir;—too dark”—cried a voice from the air.“How heading when last seen?”“As before, sir,—straight to leeward.”“Good! he will travel slower now ’tis night. Down royals andtop-gallant stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck. We must not run over him beforemorning; he’s making a passage now, and may heave-to a while. Helmthere! keep her full before the wind!—Aloft! come down!—Mr. Stubb, senda fresh hand to the fore-mast head, and see it manned tillmorning.”—Then advancing towards the doubloon in the main-mast—“Men,this gold is mine, for I earned it; but I shall let it abide here tillthe White Whale is dead; and then, whosoever of ye first raises him,upon the day he shall be killed, this gold is that man’s; and if onthat day I shall again raise him, then, ten times its sum shall bedivided among all of ye! Away now!—the deck is thine, sir!”And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, andslouching his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervalsrousing himself to see how the night wore on.CHAPTER 134. The Chase—Second Day.At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.“D’ye see him?” cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the lightto spread.“See nothing, sir.”“Turn up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thoughtfor;—the top-gallant sails!—aye, they should have been kept on her allnight. But no matter—’tis but resting for the rush.”Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particularwhale, continued through day into night, and through night into day, isa thing by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such isthe wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincibleconfidence acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucketcommanders; that from the simple observation of a whale when lastdescried, they will, under certain given circumstances, prettyaccurately foretell both the direction in which he will continue toswim for a time, while out of sight, as well as his probable rate ofprogression during that period. And, in these cases, somewhat as apilot, when about losing sight of a coast, whose general trending hewell knows, and which he desires shortly to return to again, but atsome further point; like as this pilot stands by his compass, and takesthe precise bearing of the cape at present visible, in order the morecertainly to hit aright the remote, unseen headland, eventually to bevisited: so does the fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; forafter being chased, and diligently marked, through several hours ofdaylight, then, when night obscures the fish, the creature’s futurewake through the darkness is almost as established to the sagaciousmind of the hunter, as the pilot’s coast is to him. So that to thishunter’s wondrous skill, the proverbial evanescence of a thing writ inwater, a wake, is to all desired purposes well nigh as reliable as thesteadfast land. And as the mighty iron Leviathan of the modern railwayis so familiarly known in its every pace, that, with watches in theirhands, men time his rate as doctors that of a baby’s pulse; and lightlysay of it, the up train or the down train will reach such or such aspot, at such or such an hour; even so, almost, there are occasionswhen these Nantucketers time that other Leviathan of the deep,according to the observed humor of his speed; and say to themselves, somany hours hence this whale will have gone two hundred miles, will haveabout reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude. But torender this acuteness at all successful in the end, the wind and thesea must be the whaleman’s allies; for of what present avail to thebecalmed or windbound mariner is the skill that assures him he isexactly ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his port? Inferablefrom these statements, are many collateral subtile matters touching thechase of whales.The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when acannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the levelfield.“By salt and hemp!” cried Stubb, “but this swift motion of the deckcreeps up one’s legs and tingles at the heart. This ship and I are twobrave fellows!—Ha, ha! Some one take me up, and launch me, spine-wise,on the sea,—for by live-oaks! my spine’s a keel. Ha, ha! we go the gaitthat leaves no dust behind!”“There she blows—she blows!—she blows!—right ahead!” was now themast-head cry.“Aye, aye!” cried Stubb, “I knew it—ye can’t escape—blow on and splityour spout, O whale! the mad fiend himself is after ye! blow yourtrump—blister your lungs!—Ahab will dam off your blood, as a millershuts his watergate upon the stream!”And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenziesof the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wineworked anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them mighthave felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through thegrowing awe of Ahab, but they were broken up, and on all sides routed,as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The handof Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of theprevious day; the rack of the past night’s suspense; the fixed,unfearing, blind, reckless way in which their wild craft went plungingtowards its flying mark; by all these things, their hearts were bowledalong. The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed thevessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol ofthat unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all;though it was put together of all contrasting things—oak, and maple,and pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp—yet all these ran into eachother in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balancedand directed by the long central keel; even so, all the individualitiesof the crew, this man’s valor, that man’s fear; guilt and guiltiness,all varieties were welded into oneness, and were all directed to thatfatal goal which Ahab their one lord and keel did point to.The rigging lived. The mast-heads, like the tops of tall palms, wereoutspreadingly tufted with arms and legs. Clinging to a spar with onehand, some reached forth the other with impatient wavings; others,shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat far out on the rockingyards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe fortheir fate. Ah! how they still strove through that infinite blueness toseek out the thing that might destroy them!“Why sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?” cried Ahab, when, afterthe lapse of some minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard.“Sway me up, men; ye have been deceived; not Moby Dick casts one oddjet that way, and then disappears.”It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had mistaken someother thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved; forhardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed to itspin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made theair vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles. The triumphanthalloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as—much nearer to the shipthan the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead—Moby Dickbodily burst into view! For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; notby the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did theWhite Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrousphenomenon of breaching. Rising with his utmost velocity from thefurthest depths, the Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into thepure element of air, and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam, showshis place to the distance of seven miles and more. In those moments,the torn, enraged waves he shakes off, seem his mane; in some cases,this breaching is his act of defiance.“There she breaches! there she breaches!” was the cry, as in hisimmeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like toHeaven. So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relievedagainst the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised,for the moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; andstood there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparklingintensity, to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale.“Aye, breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!” cried Ahab, “thy hourand thy harpoon are at hand!—Down! down all of ye, but one man at thefore. The boats!—stand by!”Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, likeshooting stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated backstays andhalyards; while Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was droppedfrom his perch.“Lower away,” he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat—a spare one,rigged the afternoon previous. “Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine—keepaway from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all!”As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the firstassailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for thethree crews. Ahab’s boat was central; and cheering his men, he toldthem he would take the whale head-and-head,—that is, pull straight upto his forehead,—a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit,such a course excludes the coming onset from the whale’s sidelongvision. But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all threeboats were plain as the ship’s three masts to his eye; the White Whalechurning himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were,rushing among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offeredappalling battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at himfrom every boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plankof which those boats were made. But skilfully manœuvred, incessantlywheeling like trained chargers in the field; the boats for a whileeluded him; though, at times, but by a plank’s breadth; while all thetime, Ahab’s unearthly slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds.But at last in his untraceable evolutions, the White Whale so crossedand recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the threelines now fast to him, that they foreshortened, and, of themselves,warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him; though nowfor a moment the whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a moretremendous charge. Seizing that opportunity, Ahab first paid out moreline: and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again—hopingthat way to disencumber it of some snarls—when lo!—a sight more savagethan the embattled teeth of sharks!Caught and twisted—corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoonsand lances, with all their bristling barbs and points, came flashingand dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab’s boat. Only onething could be done. Seizing the boat-knife, he critically reachedwithin—through—and then, without—the rays of steel; dragged in the linebeyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice sunderingthe rope near the chocks—dropped the intercepted fagot of steel intothe sea; and was all fast again. That instant, the White Whale made asudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines; by sodoing, irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and Flasktowards his flukes; dashed them together like two rolling husks on asurf-beaten beach, and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in aboiling maelstrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips ofthe wrecks danced round and round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftlystirred bowl of punch.While the two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out afterthe revolving line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, whileaslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitchinghis legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb waslustily singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the oldman’s line—now parting—admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool torescue whom he could;—in that wild simultaneousness of a thousandconcreted perils,—Ahab’s yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towardsHeaven by invisible wires,—as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularlyfrom the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against itsbottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till it fellagain—gunwale downwards—and Ahab and his men struggled out from underit, like seals from a sea-side cave.The first uprising momentum of the whale—modifying its direction as hestruck the surface—involuntarily launched him along it, to a littledistance from the centre of the destruction he had made; and with hisback to it, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes fromside to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip orcrumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, andcame sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his workfor that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through theocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued hisleeward way at a traveller’s methodic pace.As before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, againcame bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up thefloating mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at,and safely landed them on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists,and ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances;inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all thesewere there; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallenany one. As with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimlyclinging to his boat’s broken half, which afforded a comparatively easyfloat; nor did it so exhaust him as the previous day’s mishap.But when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; asinstead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder ofStarbuck, who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivoryleg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splinter.“Aye, aye, Starbuck, ’tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the leaner who hewill; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has.”“The ferrule has not stood, sir,” said the carpenter, now coming up; “Iput good work into that leg.”“But no bones broken, sir, I hope,” said Stubb with true concern.“Aye! and all splintered to pieces, Stubb!—d’ye see it.—But even with abroken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone ofmine one jot more me, than this dead one that’s lost. Nor white whale,nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper andinaccessible being. Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrapeyonder roof?—Aloft there! which way?”“Dead to leeward, sir.”“Up helm, then; pile on the sail again, ship keepers! down the rest ofthe spare boats and rig them—Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat’screws.”“Let me first help thee towards the bulwarks, sir.”“Oh, oh, oh! how this splinter gores me now! Accursed fate! that theunconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!”“Sir?”“My body, man, not thee. Give me something for a cane—there, thatshivered lance will do. Muster the men. Surely I have not seen him yet.By heaven it cannot be!—missing?—quick! call them all.”The old man’s hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, theParsee was not there.“The Parsee!” cried Stubb—“he must have been caught in——”“The black vomit wrench thee!—run all of ye above, alow, cabin,forecastle—find him—not gone—not gone!”But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee wasnowhere to be found.“Aye, sir,” said Stubb—“caught among the tangles of your line—I thoughtI saw him dragging under.”“My line! my line? Gone?—gone? What means that little word?—Whatdeath-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry.The harpoon, too!—toss over the litter there,—d’ye see it?—the forgediron, men, the white whale’s—no, no, no,—blistered fool! this hand diddart it!—’tis in the fish!—Aloft there! Keep him nailed—Quick!—allhands to the rigging of the boats—collect the oars—harpooneers! theirons, the irons!—hoist the royals higher—a pull on all thesheets!—helm there! steady, steady for your life! I’ll ten times girdlethe unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but I’ll slayhim yet!”“Great God! but for one single instant show thyself,” cried Starbuck;“never, never wilt thou capture him, old man—In Jesus’ name no more ofthis, that’s worse than devil’s madness. Two days chased; twice stoveto splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evilshadow gone—all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:—what morewouldst thou have?—Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till heswamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of thesea? Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh, oh,—Impietyand blasphemy to hunt him more!”“Starbuck, of late I’ve felt strangely moved to thee; ever since thathour we both saw—thou know’st what, in one another’s eyes. But in thismatter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of thishand—a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. Thiswhole act’s immutably decreed. ’Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billionyears before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates’ lieutenant; I actunder orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.—Stand roundme, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shiveredlance; propped up on a lonely foot. ’Tis Ahab—his body’s part; butAhab’s soul’s a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feelstrained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in agale; and I may look so. But ere I break, ye’ll hear me crack; and tillye hear that, know that Ahab’s hawser tows his purpose yet. Believeye, men, in the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore!For ere they drown, drowning things will twice rise to the surface;then rise again, to sink for evermore. So with Moby Dick—two days he’sfloated—tomorrow will be the third. Aye, men, he’ll rise once more,—butonly to spout his last! D’ye feel brave men, brave?”“As fearless fire,” cried Stubb.“And as mechanical,” muttered Ahab. Then as the men went forward, hemuttered on: “The things called omens! And yesterday I talked the sameto Starbuck there, concerning my broken boat. Oh! how valiantly I seekto drive out of others’ hearts what’s clinched so fast in mine!—TheParsee—the Parsee!—gone, gone? and he was to go before:—but still wasto be seen again ere I could perish—How’s that?—There’s a riddle nowmight baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line ofjudges:—like a hawk’s beak it pecks my brain. I’ll, I’ll solve it,though!”When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight to leeward.So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as onthe previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of thegrindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled bylanterns in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats andsharpening their fresh weapons for the morrow. Meantime, of the brokenkeel of Ahab’s wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg; whilestill as on the night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within hisscuttle; his hid, heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on itsdial; sat due eastward for the earliest sun.CHAPTER 135. The Chase.—Third Day.The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more thesolitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of thedaylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar.“D’ye see him?” cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.“In his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that’s all. Helmthere; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going. What a lovely dayagain! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to theangels, and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, afairer day could not dawn upon that world. Here’s food for thought, hadAhab time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels;that’s tingling enough for mortal man! to think’s audacity. God onlyhas that right and privilege. Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolnessand a calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat toomuch for that. And yet, I’ve sometimes thought my brain was verycalm—frozen calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which thecontents turned to ice, and shiver it. And still this hair is growingnow; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it’s likethat sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthyclefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blowit; they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash thetossed ship they cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere thisthrough prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, andventilated them, and now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces.Out upon it!—it’s tainted. Were I the wind, I’d blow no more on such awicked, miserable world. I’d crawl somewhere to a cave, and slinkthere. And yet, ’tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind! who everconquered it? In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow. Runtilting at it, and you but run through it. Ha! a coward wind thatstrikes stark naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow.Even Ahab is a braver thing—a nobler thing than that. Would now thewind but had a body; but all the things that most exasperate andoutrage mortal man, all these things are bodiless, but only bodiless asobjects, not as agents. There’s a most special, a most cunning, oh, amost malicious difference! And yet, I say again, and swear it now, thatthere’s something all glorious and gracious in the wind. These warmTrade Winds, at least, that in the clear heavens blow straight on, instrong and steadfast, vigorous mildness; and veer not from their mark,however the baser currents of the sea may turn and tack, and mightiestMississippies of the land swift and swerve about, uncertain where to goat last. And by the eternal Poles! these same Trades that so directlyblow my good ship on; these Trades, or something like them—something sounchangeable, and full as strong, blow my keeled soul along! To it!Aloft there! What d’ye see?”“Nothing, sir.”“Nothing! and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See the sun!Aye, aye, it must be so. I’ve oversailed him. How, got the start? Aye,he’s chasing me now; not I, him—that’s bad; I might have known it,too. Fool! the lines—the harpoons he’s towing. Aye, aye, I have run himby last night. About! about! Come down, all of ye, but the regular lookouts! Man the braces!”Steering as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod’squarter, so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the bracedship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her ownwhite wake.“Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw,” murmured Starbuck tohimself, as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. “Godkeep us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the insidewet my flesh. I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him!”“Stand by to sway me up!” cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket.“We should meet him soon.”“Aye, aye, sir,” and straightway Starbuck did Ahab’s bidding, and oncemore Ahab swung on high.A whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages. Time itself now heldlong breaths with keen suspense. But at last, some three points off theweather bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from thethree mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire hadvoiced it.“Forehead to forehead I meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick! On deckthere!—brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind’s eye. He’s too faroff to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck. The sails shake! Stand over thathelmsman with a top-maul! So, so; he travels fast, and I must down. Butlet me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there’stime for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, andnot changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills ofNantucket! The same!—the same!—the same to Noah as to me. There’s asoft shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They must leadsomewhere—to something else than common land, more palmy than thepalms. Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to windward, then;the better if the bitterer quarter. But good bye, good bye, oldmast-head! What’s this?—green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.No such green weather stains on Ahab’s head! There’s the difference nowbetween man’s old age and matter’s. But aye, old mast, we both grow oldtogether; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minus aleg, that’s all. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my liveflesh every way. I can’t compare with it; and I’ve known some shipsmade of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vitalstuff of vital fathers. What’s that he said? he should still go beforeme, my pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes atthe bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? andall night I’ve been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye,aye, like many more thou told’st direful truth as touching thyself, OParsee; but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short. Good-bye, mast-head—keepa good eye upon the whale, the while I’m gone. We’ll talk to-morrow,nay, to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head andtail.”He gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily loweredthrough the cloven blue air to the deck.In due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop’sstern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to themate,—who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck—and bade him pause.“Starbuck!”“Sir?”“For the third time my soul’s ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck.”“Aye, sir, thou wilt have it so.”“Some ships sail from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing,Starbuck!”“Truth, sir: saddest truth.”“Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the full of theflood;—and I feel now like a billow that’s all one crested comb,Starbuck. I am old;—shake hands with me, man.”Their hands met; their eyes fastened; Starbuck’s tears the glue.“Oh, my captain, my captain!—noble heart—go not—go not!—see, it’s abrave man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then!”“Lower away!”—cried Ahab, tossing the mate’s arm from him. “Stand bythe crew!”In an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern.“The sharks! the sharks!” cried a voice from the low cabin-windowthere; “O master, my master, come back!”But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and theboat leaped on.Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, whennumbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneaththe hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every timethey dipped in the water; and in this way accompanied the boat withtheir bites. It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boatsin those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following themin the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners ofmarching regiments in the east. But these were the first sharks thathad been observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been firstdescried; and whether it was that Ahab’s crew were all suchtiger-yellow barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to thesenses of the sharks—a matter sometimes well known to affectthem,—however it was, they seemed to follow that one boat withoutmolesting the others.“Heart of wrought steel!” murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, andfollowing with his eyes the receding boat—“canst thou yet ring boldlyto that sight?—lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed bythem, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?—Forwhen three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit; besure the first is the morning, the second the noon, and the third theevening and the end of that thing—be that end what it may. Oh! my God!what is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yetexpectant,—fixed at the top of a shudder! Future things swim before me,as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim.Mary, girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy! I seem to seebut thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems of life seemclearing; but clouds sweep between—Is my journey’s end coming? My legsfeel faint; like his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heart,—beatsit yet? Stir thyself, Starbuck!—stave it off—move, move! speakaloud!—Mast-head there! See ye my boy’s hand on the hill?—Crazed;—aloftthere!—keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:—mark well the whale!—Ho!again!—drive off that hawk! see! he pecks—he tears the vane”—pointingto the red flag flying at the main-truck—“Ha! he soars away withit!—Where’s the old man now? see’st thou that sight, oh Ahab!—shudder,shudder!”The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads—adownward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; butintending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way alittle sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining theprofoundest silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammeredagainst the opposing bow.“Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye waves! to their uttermost headsdrive them in! ye but strike a thing without a lid; and no coffin andno hearse can be mine:—and hemp only can kill me! Ha! ha!”Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; thenquickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of ice,swiftly rising to the surface. A low rumbling sound was heard; asubterraneous hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled withtrailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise,but obliquely from the sea. Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist,it hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swampingback into the deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed foran instant like heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower offlakes, leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round themarble trunk of the whale.“Give way!” cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward tothe attack; but maddened by yesterday’s fresh irons that corroded inhim, Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fellfrom heaven. The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broadwhite forehead, beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together;as head on, he came churning his tail among the boats; and once moreflailed them apart; spilling out the irons and lances from the twomates’ boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows,but leaving Ahab’s almost without a scar.While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as thewhale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as heshot by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up. Lashed roundand round to the fish’s back; pinioned in the turns upon turns inwhich, during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions ofthe lines around him, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; hissable raiment frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon oldAhab.The harpoon dropped from his hand.“Befooled, befooled!”—drawing in a long lean breath—“Aye, Parsee! I seethee again.—Aye, and thou goest before; and this, this then is thehearse that thou didst promise. But I hold thee to the last letter ofthy word. Where is the second hearse? Away, mates, to the ship! thoseboats are useless now; repair them if ye can in time, and return to me;if not, Ahab is enough to die—Down, men! the first thing that butoffers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon. Ye arenot other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.—Where’s thewhale? gone down again?”But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with thecorpse he bore, and as if the particular place of the last encounterhad been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now againsteadily swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship,—which thusfar had been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for thepresent her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with hisutmost velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straightpath in the sea.“Oh! Ahab,” cried Starbuck, “not too late is it, even now, the thirdday, to desist. See! Moby Dick seeks thee not. It is thou, thou, thatmadly seekest him!”Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelledto leeward, by both oars and canvas. And at last when Ahab was slidingby the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck’s face as heleaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, andfollow him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval. Glancing upwards,he saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the threemast-heads; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boatswhich had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work inrepairing them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as hesped, he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busyingthemselves on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. As he saw allthis; as he heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammersseemed driving a nail into his heart. But he rallied. And now markingthat the vane or flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted toTashtego, who had just gained that perch, to descend again for anotherflag, and a hammer and nails, and so nail it to the mast.Whether fagged by the three days’ running chase, and the resistance tohis swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether it was somelatent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, the WhiteWhale’s way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidlynearing him once more; though indeed the whale’s last start had notbeen so long a one as before. And still as Ahab glided over the wavesthe unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck tothe boat; and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the bladesbecame jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, atalmost every dip.“Heed them not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars. Pullon! ’tis the better rest, the shark’s jaw than the yielding water.”“But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!”“They will last long enough! pull on!—But who can tell”—hemuttered—“whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or onAhab?—But pull on! Aye, all alive, now—we near him. The helm! take thehelm! let me pass,”—and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forwardto the bows of the still flying boat.At length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along withthe White Whale’s flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of itsadvance—as the whale sometimes will—and Ahab was fairly within thesmoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale’s spout, curledround his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when,with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to thepoise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into thehated whale. As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as if suckedinto a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled hisnigh flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, sosuddenly canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevatedpart of the gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more havebeen tossed into the sea. As it was, three of the oarsmen—who foreknewnot the precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared forits effects—these were flung out; but so fell, that, in an instant twoof them clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its level on acombing wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third manhelplessly dropping astern, but still afloat and swimming.Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated,instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the welteringsea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns withthe line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on theirseats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous linefelt that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air!“What breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!—’tis whole again; oars! oars!Burst in upon him!”Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeledround to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution,catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeingin it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it—it may be—alarger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancingprow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead. “I grow blind; hands!stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way. Is’t night?”“The whale! The ship!” cried the cringing oarsmen.“Oars! oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be forever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! Isee: the ship! the ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?”But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through thesledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planksburst through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boatlay nearly level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew,trying hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water.Meantime, for that one beholding instant, Tashtego’s mast-head hammerremained suspended in his hand; and the red flag, half-wrapping him aswith a plaid, then streamed itself straight out from him, as his ownforward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon thebowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soonas he.“The whale, the whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, all ye sweet powers ofair, now hug me close! Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in awoman’s fainting fit. Up helm, I say—ye fools, the jaw! the jaw! Isthis the end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities?Oh, Ahab, Ahab, lo, thy work. Steady! helmsman, steady. Nay, nay! Uphelm again! He turns to meet us! Oh, his unappeasable brow drives ontowards one, whose duty tells him he cannot depart. My God, stand by menow!”“Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will nowhelp Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. I grin at thee, thou grinningwhale! Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb’s ownunwinking eye? And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that isall too soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood! I grin at thee,thou grinning whale! Look ye, sun, moon, and stars! I call ye assassinsof as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, I wouldyet ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup! Oh, oh! oh, oh!thou grinning whale, but there’ll be plenty of gulping soon! Why fly yenot, O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in hisdrawers! A most mouldy and over salted death, though;—cherries!cherries! cherries! Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!”“Cherries? I only wish that we were where they grow. Oh, Stubb, I hopemy poor mother’s drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers willnow come to her, for the voyage is up.”From the ship’s bows, nearly all the seamen now hung inactive; hammers,bits of plank, lances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in theirhands, just as they had darted from their various employments; alltheir enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which from side to sidestrangely vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band ofoverspreading semicircular foam before him as he rushed. Retribution,swift vengeance, eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite ofall that mortal man could do, the solid white buttress of his foreheadsmote the ship’s starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled. Some fellflat upon their faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads of theharpooneers aloft shook on their bull-like necks. Through the breach,they heard the waters pour, as mountain torrents down a flume.“The ship! The hearse!—the second hearse!” cried Ahab from the boat;“its wood could only be American!”Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along itskeel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, faroff the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab’s boat, where, for atime, he lay quiescent.“I turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thyhammer. Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel;and only god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, andPole-pointed prow,—death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, andwithout me? Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanestshipwrecked captains? Oh, lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feelmy topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all yourfurthest bounds, pour ye now in, ye bold billows of my whole foregonelife, and top this one piled comber of my death! Towards thee I roll,thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple withthee; from hell’s heart I stab at thee; for hate’s sake I spit my lastbreath at thee. Sink all coffins and all hearses to one common pool!and since neither can be mine, let me then tow to pieces, while stillchasing thee, though tied to thee, thou damned whale! Thus, I give upthe spear!”The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with ignitingvelocity the line ran through the grooves;—ran foul. Ahab stooped toclear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round theneck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he wasshot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, theheavy eye-splice in the rope’s final end flew out of the stark-emptytub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in itsdepths.For an instant, the tranced boat’s crew stood still; then turned. “Theship? Great God, where is the ship?” Soon they through dim, bewilderingmediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous FataMorgana; only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed byinfatuation, or fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, thepagan harpooneers still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea.And now, concentric circles seized the lone boat itself, and all itscrew, and each floating oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning,animate and inanimate, all round and round in one vortex, carried thesmallest chip of the Pequod out of sight.But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over thesunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of theerect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag,which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroyingbillows they almost touched;—at that instant, a red arm and a hammerhovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing theflag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk thattauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural homeamong the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there;this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing betweenthe hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherialthrill, the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept hishammer frozen there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelicshrieks, and his imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captiveform folded in the flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, likeSatan, would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part ofheaven along with her, and helmeted herself with it.Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullenwhite surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and thegreat shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.Epilogue“AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE” Job.The drama’s done. Why then here does any one step forth?—Because onedid survive the wreck.It so chanced, that after the Parsee’s disappearance, I was he whom theFates ordained to take the place of Ahab’s bowsman, when that bowsmanassumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day the threemen were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So,floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it,when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then, butslowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached it, it hadsubsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, then, and ever contractingtowards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowlywheeling circle, like another Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining thatvital centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated byreason of its cunning spring, and, owing to its great buoyancy, risingwith great force, the coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from the sea,fell over, and floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almostone whole day and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. Theunharming sharks, they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths;the savage sea-hawks sailed with sheathed beaks. On the second day, asail drew near, nearer, and picked me up at last. It was thedevious-cruising Rachel, that in her retracing search after her missingchildren, only found another orphan.